The announcement of this unprecedented act by lions was made by zoologist before journalists, environmentalists and enthusiastic people who felt that the innocent and beautiful lion’s cub was well attended and the big cats were supposed to show support by welcoming it back to the pride. On one side this may be a big disappointment but on the hand it’s a clear message to zoologists that they need to do more whenever something like this happens in the future. From Serengeti plains to savannah grassland of Tarangire, Katavi, Mikumi and Ruaha lions are known for helping each other but one may ask why this pride of Ngorongoro decided to reject their fellow which was born with problems on the abdomen muscles? Rejection can be defined by linguists as a state of being refused by your friends, relatives or family members who decided not show you acceptance, love and affection but what happened to the innocent cub in Ngorongoro may be regarded by zoologists as a dismissal from the pride. As this act is still cracking into many people’s minds, just like humans, in the wild many animal species have mothers which make great sacrifices to bring their offspring into the world and use a lot of investment to take care for large litters for several months and years until some of them reach adulthood. Unlike avian, reptilians and insects which lay eggs, lions are mammals which the cost of reproduction is relatively high, this is because they carry the developing fetuses around inside a lioness’s body where the gestation period lasts for around 110 days. When it is time to give birth a lioness leaves her pride and look for a safer area for her lion cubs in dense cover, a reed bed, a cave, or some other sheltered area where opportunistic predator and scavengers of the savannah are unable to see them. Scientists say when mammalian mothers give birth, they must begin nursing their infants and this is something they can do only if they’re healthy and well nourished, when this happens when a mother lion in the wild gives birth to unhealthy or deformed cubs, or is unable to find enough to eat, she may decide to kill and consume them for her own survival because the babies become a resource which she can not afford to waste. Sometime when a lioness finds out she is unable to nurse her cubs because of limited supply of food and if one of the cubs dies she will most likely eat it immediately and this is done to nourishes her and has the added benefit of removing the carcass which may lead dangerous predators to the den. Love or hate and even be afraid of them but lactating lionesses are known for their courage in defense, but affection and valiant attentions to her cubs, ensuring the survival of young by going or doing all it takes to care and protect the newborn cubs through their early months. Female lions are known to give birth to a litter of one to six cubs which require an investment of time and energy to protect them because from the beginning they start their lives blind as their eyes open after not less than seven days. At this time these cubs weigh about one kilogram and are helpless as they depend on their mother to carry then from one point to another until the second day when they start to crawl but they always unable to walk until they are around three weeks of age. During this period, she will moves her cubs to a new den site several times a month, this is done by carrying them one by one by the nape of the neck. Scientists say this is done in order to prevent the building up of scent from at a single den site and thus avoiding the attention of predators that may harm the cubs also she will always hunt by herself while the cubs are still helpless, staying relatively close to the thicket or den where the cubs are kept. To make sure that things go according to her plans, a lactating lioness may fast for several days while taking care of her new born cubs until situation allows her to go out for hunting and produce enough milk. Availability of food may influence caring for all the young equally because some may be malnourished and unable to face challenges of the savannah which harbors marauding scavenger such as hyena which turn the grassland up and down from all directions. Through what is called natural selection, a female lion which is going through this kind of hardship may decided to abandon weakest or youngest cubs and take out those which are stronger and have greater chance of surviving. Before human’s eyes, this is cruelty act because the abandoned cubs will obvious die or eaten by hyenas and birds of prey which are equipped with powerful eyes and use unique mechanisms for scanning the savannah for food. Meanwhile lonely and inexperienced lionesses are known of rejecting or abandoning their offspring shortly after birth because they know it is very expensive to take care of them. Scientists say when this happens its very bad but these mothers have do not have the means to nurse the cubs in the middle of a challenging environment of the savannah. Zoologists say always this happens if an infant is weak, small or defective, a lioness will instinctively abandon or cull the animal to concentrate their resources on the stronger cubs that stand a greater chance of surviving. On their standards, animal mothers reject the weaker offspring to prevent predation of those which are stronger by other species but this act may be caused by human interference which is not tolerated at any level by lions in the wild. Zoologists say what happened in Ngorongoro is common in different zoo around the world where captiveanimals often rejecting their young because of too much human handling, but cow, sheep, goat and other domestic animals are used to this situation that is why their level of rejection and abandonment of offspring is very low. There reports that domestic cat abandon or sometime kills their cubs because of humans interference, in the wild, among lions, leopards, cheetah and other mammals human handling is rare and is not acceptable. Zoologists say by touching the cub, doctors in Ngorongoro transferred their scents to baby lion which confused its mother and other members of the pride and make it harder for them to identify the off-spring as their own, and when they fell to recognize the identification marks they may decided push it out into the wilderness where the chance of getting a surrogate mother is limited. To make things harder to the cubs, male do not take part into careering of the offspring and after taking over the pride from the previous own, cubs which are less than two years are always killed by the new owner. Scientists say that out of four cubs which come from one litter more than half of them perish down because of these and other natural factors which control their number and balance the ecosystem. Although adult lions are fearsome their cubs are awesome beautiful, they are born with tawny black spots but after passing through a complex natural process eventually these marks disappear as they grow older to take up their positions in wild.