The Father of the Nation climaxed one of his Independence Day–ninth December– speeches with the slogan ‘Uhuru Ni Kazi’, which loosely translates as ‘Political independence is synonymous with work’. It was a reaction to a disturbing trend that he had noted, and to which brakes had to be applied, lest it became deeply entrenched and messed up the country. After Tanganyika (the precursor to Tanzania) attained political independence (Uhuru) from British colonial rule on December 9, 1961, some perceived the concept as freedom from work. The nationalist government, so it was assumed, would be the major provider : free education, free medical services, and so forth, and that, wananchi could at best relax, and at worst, do light duty. Many workplaces were literally converted into theatres of laziness at best, and, at worst, centres for criminal mischief like embezzlement of funds. Many state companies limped and, looted almost to the bone, eventually collapsed. There are thus echoes in the multi-pronged initiatives being undertaken by the current government, to doctors striving to save the life of a critically sick patient. Whereas members of the public are enjoined to support the President and his team, his key lieutenants are supposed to play a frontline role in that regard. Regional commissioners (RCs) are among crucial components of the public service machinery. Now, unlike previously, holding a key post translates into being a highly spirited servant of the people, and isn’t a licence for big headedness and enrichment. The Dodoma RC, Dr Binilith Mahenge, recently directed district commissioners under his jurisdiction to establish complaints desks for addressing thorny issues that are tormenting wananchi, including land disputes. He was amplifying on what President Magufuli periodically stresses-that technocrats should be more of field task men and task women than office-based paperwork processors! That is as it should be–it is a crucial component of the ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ concept, onto the steam of which the rest of wananchi are obliged to contribute. After all, ‘kazi’ has been the key concept all along: ‘Uhuru na Kazi’, ‘Uhuru ni Kazi’, and lately, ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’.