Yanga has racked up fifth win from their last ten league matches when they demolished Mbeya City 5-0 at the Uhuru Stadium last Sunday to keep their title defence campaign on track. Zambian striker Aubrey Chirwa scored a hat-trick and Emmanuel Martin netted a brace as Yanga produced their best performance of the season. Zambian tactician, George Lwandamina’s side are currently placed third on the log with 20 points from ten matches, behind the leaders Simba and second placed Azam FC, who are tied on 22 points but the ‘ice cream makers’ have inferior goal difference. Yanga, who have yet to feel the pinch of defeat this season, will be targeting to gun down another side from Southern Highland and maintain their ascendency to the top. A win will see the defending champions taking the top seat. However, it could be for some hours because the following day, league leaders Simba will play host to Iringa’s Lipuli FC at the Uhuru Stadium and victory or draw will see them back on the driver’s seat. Against Mbeya City, Yanga were unstoppable. Their battling spirit, as well as their quality in the final third, proved too much for Mbeya lads. The home side was more determined and hungry for the full 90 minutes and their fans expect the same performance today. Assistant Coach, Shadrack Nsajigwa has fired warning to rivals, saying his charges have found rhythm in race to defend their title. “Our target is to continue winning matches as they come to attain our objectives and I think we’re improving and changing something,” he said. Yanga seem to have found a new balance and solidity, after losing several key players including Simon Msuva, Vincent Bossou and Haruna Niyonzima. They have also been without leading goal scorer for the past ten matches this season, Amissi Tambwe, who is just recovering from injuries. The Burundian has not been involved for this season, while Zimbabwean duo of striker, Donald Ngoma and box to box midfielder, Thaban Kamusoko as well as Congolese midfielder, Pappy Kabamba Tshishimbi are also struggling with injuries. However, in their absence, Zambian striker Chirwa has found rhythm with new recruits Ibrahim Ajib, Pius Buswita and Raphael Daud. Emmanuel Martin and Geoffrey Mwashiuya are also providing perfect solidity from the flanks. Tambwe return will provide a further depth to the team’s striking force. On their side, Tanzania Prisons placed sixth on the log with 14 points after three wins, five draws from ten games will be eager to bounce back from a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Simba in their last outing. In their last meeting at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Yanga thrashed Prisons 2-0 with the winners’ goals coming from Tambwe and Chirwa, this means Prisons will come out fire blazing seeking for revenge. Other four venues will be in action as Singida United will welcome wounded Mbeya City at the Namfua Stadium in Singida, while Mbao FC will be at home at the CCM –Kirumba Stadium playing against Mwadui FC after being away for couple of matches. Bottom placed Stand United will be away from home in Kagera to face rejuvenated side Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium and Ruvu Shooting host Majimaji of Songea at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast region.