Speaking after the Stand up for Af- rican Mothers (SU4AM) charity walk in Dar es Salaam yesterday, she said as the world has already commenced implementing Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), in Tanzania, 556 women die per every 100,000 live births. “Apart from the new guidelines by the ministry directing healthcare provid- ers to discuss the reasons behind neonatal death within 24hours after its occurrence, it is high time you develop a new plan that will curb such incidents,” she said. Ms Samia said it was crucial for all partners to join efforts to ensure giving birth is not punishment to women, what people term as bad luck once a child dies in the labour should come to an end. The VP further said more than 7bn/- has been set aside by the government for safe delivery medications including FEFO, Oxytocin and Magnesium Sulphate, and the government will also increase access to emergency delivery services. According to Ms Samia, 1.8bn/- as domestic funds and 104.9bn/- from World Bank and Canada have also been set aside for renovation of 150 health care centres to capacitate them to provide such services, the funds has already been sent to councils. SU4AM programme has been running for the past seven years, with the major aim of training more midwives for safe delivery. AMREF Health Africa Tanzania and Bank M are the main organisers of the event. Tanzania has about 23,000 practising nurses and midwives registered with the Nurses and Midwifery Council, while the actual need is between 80,000 and 100,000 countrywide. AMREF Health Africa Tanzania Country Director, Dr Florence Temu said 148mil/- was collected in cash and pledges from various development stakeholders. The funds that were raised during the event will go towards the training of nurses and midwives to provide efficient, modern and quality care to mothers and children in Tanzania. “SU4AM is a global event launched in October 2011 to draw attention to the plight of African mothers and mobilise citizens worldwide to support them get basic medical care during pregnancy and childbirth,” she noted. Dr Temu said during FY 2017/18 and 2018/19, the programme aims to raise a minimum of 300m/- to support training of a total of 400 student nurses that shall include midwifery certificate level as well as upgrading midwifery courses at Diploma level. The Director further said this will eventually contribute towards the reduction of maternal and child mortality in Africa. Let us stand up for the African mothers and contribute 25,000/- or more that will directly support the training of midwives. Dr Temu said the fact that more than half of births in Tanzania occur at home also contributes to the elevated maternal mortality rate; of all pregnant women, only 46 per cent are assisted during childbirth by a doctor, clinical officer, nurse, midwife or maternal and child health aide.