On the other hand, with the tallest body on the land a giraffe do not need to cause tension and anxiety to other dwellers of the grasslands, exceptionally the giraffe is well known with its long and elegant legs which carry the tallest but stunning neck on land. The two above mentioned features are unique to giraffe but their beautiful colours attract attention to whoever goes to Serengeti, Ruaha or Katavi national park. Knowing their distinguished position among animals and birds, giraffe prefer to stay silent in most of their time, this is unique behavior among animals of the savannah that is why it’s believed that the tallest animal on land do not have a voice box which is capable to produce any sound. On their side scientists say this is modesty or demureness habit whereby the animal use quietness to avoid attention from others including enemies, being the tallest animal on land, a giraffes spends most of their time hiding between branches of acacia trees wherever they are found in Africa. Zoologists say just like any other species of animals, giraffes are able to produce different kind but what makes them to be reticent is their high ability use sounds with special frequency, humans ear different sound which are collected by their ears, this is an auditory perception which is built on ability to recognize sound by detecting its vibrations. Unlike animals, humans are able to recognize sound and voice called audio with frequencies ranging between 20 and 20,000 hertz, not all sounds are normally audible to all animals, each species has a range of normal hearing for both amplitude and frequency. Many animals use sound to communicate with each other, and hearing in these species is particularly important for survival and reproduction, in this case a mother giraffe does not seat under a shade of an acacia tree to tale bird time story to its calf but use special frequencies to ask it to run away from an attack. History show that giraffes started to live in the savannah along the great East African rift valley more than 55.8 million years ago, this is geological period which witnessed the evolution of one of the first generation of giraffe which are believed to resemble with an okapi a dwarf giraffe dwelling today in Ituri forest reserve in DRC. Scientists say from 5.3 million years ago another generation which weighed 500 kilograms and bigger than the okapi but stand 2.2 so it was shorter than the modern giraffe, from the rims of East Africa rift valley the ancient giraffe spread to other parts of Africa where it undergo morphological changes to suit the environment which was changing very fast. From that time to date they have evolved with a 2 meters long and unique neck which also weigh about 272 kilograms and rise many unanswered question including its ability to produce sound.   Scientists say it is mistake to believe giraffes are dumb because unlike wildebeests and hyenas which make noise unnecessarily, giraffe use their voice boxes very careful, this is because giraffes are vertebrate animals which have voice box or larynx an important organ for sound production. Among mammals, reptiles and birds the larynx neck houses the vocal folds or vocal cords, which are essential for production of different sounds according to time and needs. Many scientists believe the difference between an okapi of Democratic Republic of Cong and the modern giraffe of Serengeti happened about 14 million ago when the tallest animal got the longest neck on land. Scientists continue to say this was an evolution process which took a very long period lasting about 5.85 million before the modern giraffe evolved with its standard neck. Miraculously the neck of a giraffe works perfect to balance a body with the longest legs but also carry and rotate its head without causing problems to the animal regardless of age, height and weight. As we have seen on the previous paragraph, the neck of a giraffe is equipped with voice box which produces sound. Inside the neck of a giraffe this is a larynx which is carry air to and from lungs, it also work as a blockage for unwanted materials to enter into the main respiratory organ. This is because giraffe carries a neck which is built with not less than 12 different organs which work efficiently. This include a special bone which is joined to the tongue and work to move it when there is a need of regulating sound in conjunction with epiglottis. This is what is known to some of us a Kilimi, but inside the mouth it work corporately with vestibular fold block thorns and other particles from interrupting the voice box. Inside giraffe’s neck the voice box or larynx of a giraffe is equipped with vocal cords which vibrate to produce voice after coming under pressure of air from the lungs. Inside vocal cords, production of sound depends on special muscles which are structured in semi circle body that enables them to work efficiently. Through elastic mechanism which allow contraction and expansion, these muscles work to regulate the neck of a giraffe which want to produce a certain sound. Scientists say production of sound of an animal also depends on the respiratory system of a giraffe which depend on strength and flexibility of a giraffe. This goes hand in hand with how its long tongue is positioned, expansion of walls of its mouth and amount of pressure received from the lungs. A giraffes are equipped with one of powerful lungs in the whole of savanna, at one time they able retain 12 gallons or 55 liters of air which are used for different activities including production of sound. To produce the required level of sound, the giraffe depends on a strong heart measuring up to 60 centimeters and weigh 11 kilograms. Built by muscles with a width measuring up 7.5 centimeters, this is a special strength which enables it to produce 170 beats per one minute and push blood to the brain which is located 200 centimeters away without any problem. Being the master of all designs, GOD structured the neck of giraffe in a cone shaped figure which allow smooth operation as it produce pressure for breathing and sound production. This is unique feature which reduce its width by 0.5 centimeters after every 15 centimeters from its base on the shoulders. On the other hand scientists say a bull have strong vocal folds than female giraffe, this feature affects the ability of each sex to produce sound. A mouth of a giraffe is structured just like those of other bovines but the tongue which measure between 46 to 50 centimeters affects its ability to produce sound. Giraffe live by eating and fruits and leaves from thorn acacia trees, to do this its mouth is protected by a rough cover which also affect the volume of sound from its production site in the larynx. This cause giraffe to use special sound which our ears are unable to peak but on the other hand from Lalagwe, Mtowambu to Kateshi this habit cause some of us to believe this animal is unable to produce any sound. Unlike many other animals of savannah, giraffe produce five different sounds at different environment with different requirements, when a calf want special attention from its mother it will lament with sound called bleat but if there is no response it will cry using a mew sound. At this point a mother will respond in bellow sound which assures security to calf but when things turn grumpy special sound is used to ask everyone to leave from the danger. When one of them fails to escape and is caught by predators, the moo sound is used as a stress call to request assistance from others. During estrous period a bull will use romantic grunting sound to seduce a female in a heat while at normal day these tallest animals use scratching sound to communicate. With all its beauty, like lions, leopard, elephant, rhino, cheetah and many other animals, birds, and reptiles, the giraffe is facing many challenges including poaching, we need to help the government stop these illegal activities inside national parks, game reserves and other protected areas.