The donation for constructing public schools— primary and secondary teachers’ offices—came from the bank headquarter and a single branch in Dar—Azikiwe. Late September, CRDB decided to put donation boxes at its 252 branches across the country to assist and boost up building of teachers office in Dar. CRDB Managing Director Dr Charles Kimei said yesterday the contribution was raised from customers and staffs who have been touched by poor working conditions of primary and secondary school teachers and Dar RC initiative to solve them. “This is part of the ongoing contribution exercise conducted through the bank’s 252 branches countrywide. The today’s [yesterday] donations are coming from the bank headquarters and Azikiwe branch only,” Dr Kimei said during the money handover soft ceremony to Dar RC Paul Makonda at Azikiwe Branch. In late September, when the bank handed over 100m/- promised to Dar RC on assisting further his initiative of collecting more funds in a bid to solve teachers offices dilemma in the region. The teachers offices’ construction initiative was a brainchild of Dar RC after releasing a shortage of 402 offices for the city five municipals’ schools. Dar has 638 primary and secondary schools. Dr Kimei said still other 20 branches in the Dar city are continuing with the exercise and once collecting enough fund will also handover to the construction committee. “We are very pleased as in a less than two months some 15m/- has been contributed… “This shows how teachers’ offices problemtouches our customers and staffs and the degree of helping one another for the development cause,” Dr Kimei said. The bank Managing Director, Dr Kimei said, decided to extend further the donation initiative throughout next month as well to walk the talk of its corporate social responsibility policy and enable many to participate. Talking after receiving the donation, Mr Makonda said, CRDB has shown true patriotism in helping the region to overcome teachers’ offices problem. “I couldn’t figuring out the bank’s initiative to woo contributors could reach such a magnitude…I have to thanks the bank for your innovative idea,” Mr Makonda said. The RC also said the contribution he received yesterday showed that Dar residents are at hand to assist the region to overcome some social and development challenges. Two months ago CRDB donated a total of 200m/-, where 100m/- was given cash and enable to procure 10,000 cement bags enough to construct 40 offices and the remaining balance to be issued next year. The bank said they decided to fully support the initiative since teachers’ offices are the key infrastructure for the best performance of Dar pupils. According to the construction programme, armies—Tanzania People Defence Forces, National Services and Prison will supply labour force and skills.