According to the statement issued by the Communication and Public Relations Unit of SADC Secretariat yesterday, the meeting was attended by Ministers responsible for Foreign or External Affairs from the SADC Organ Troika member states of Angola, Tanzania and Zambia. The emergency meeting was also attended by SADC Council Chairperson Maite Nkoana-Mashabane, who is also the South African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation. However, the Zimbabwe Defence Force (ZDF) has continued to maintain that it is not planning to stage a coup, rather it is targeting “criminals” around President Robert Mugabe, who have caused social and economic suffering to Zimbabweans and the nation at large. In its crackdown on the criminals Finance Minister Ignatius Chombo was reported to have been arrested on Wednesday. The army has also demanded an end to the purges in the ruling party, Zanu-PF. About a week ago President Mugabe, fired Vice-President Emmerson Mnangagwa, who is now widely expected to lead the transitional government. According to the military, the dislodged president and his family were safe and sound; the statement was also confirmed by South Africa President Jacob Zuma on Wednesday after he talked to Mr Mugabe himself. According to President Zuma, Mr Mugabe was confined to his home. However, there have been conflicting reports on the whereabouts of the President’s wife, Ms Grace Mugabe, as some reports have maintained that the Zimbabwean first lady fled to Namibia while other reports claimed she was still in Zimbabwe. CNN, a US based international news channel reported yesterday that Opposition leader for Movement for Democratic Change ( MDC) Morgan Tsvangirai, who had been receiving cancer treatment abroad, returned to Harare after the military takeover. According to CNN, one source, a senior member of Tsvangirai’s Movement for Democratic Change (MDC-T) party, said talks were underway with military leaders about an administration that includes the opposition, with the tacit backing of key regional allies. The source described the arrangement as “a done deal,” but there was no indication yesterday that Mugabe planned to go quietly. Until yesterday the 93-year-old leader, was yet to make any public statement since the military seized control on Wednesday. A South Africa-based news channel – News24 -- reported that Mr Tsvangirai held a press conference yesterday, insisting that President Mugabe must resign. “It is in the interest of the people of Zimbabwe; Mugabe must resign immediately, “News24 quoted Mr Tsvangirai as having said in the press conference. He added: “We have a national crisis that we must confront but the military are the only ones who can decide if Mugabe and his wife Grace receive immunity.” According to the opposition, he believes in democracy and the rule of law. However, reports from Zimbabwe had it that Mr Mugabe was reluctant to relinquish power. An Associated Press (AP) reported yesterday that a joint statement by more than 100 civil society groups urged Mugabe, the world’s oldest head of state, to peacefully step aside and asked the military to quickly restore order and respect the constitution. A joint statement by churches also appealed for calm. The military remained in the streets of Harare yesterday as Southern African regional officials were meeting on the crisis. South African ministers had arrived in Harare for talks with the military and Mr Mugabe. Ms Joice Mujuru, a Zimbabwean Vice-President who was fired in 2014, called for “free, fair and credible elections” after a transition arrangement that draws from a range of communities. She told reporters she was heartened by assurances given so far that condemn violence and encourage peace. She said she was yet to be contacted by the military or Mr Mnangagwa’s people. The Zimbabwean pastor whose #ThisFlag social media campaign last year led to the largest anti-government protests in a decade called upon citizens to “stand up for peace.” “Should we just sit and wait or shall we at least be part of this transition process?” Evan Mawarire asked, urging citizens not wait for regional leaders to broker the next phase. Across the country, Zimbabweans were enjoying freedom they haven’t had in years. The shift to military control brought a kind of fresh air.