The company’s plan was made public recently in Shenzhen, China to a delegation of media practitioners who visited the Asian nation during which they got exposure on how they can contribute towards industrialisation drive currently being implemented by the fifth phase government. China, the second largest economy in the world, has seen its development leapfrogging after investing in education and technology. During the tour, reporters had an opportunity to visit Huawei headquarters in Shenzhen, China during which they were also introduced to e-education system after they were taken to a classroom at Baogang Primary School where Huawei installed a system to facilitate e-learning. Huawei Senior Solution Manager, Mr Li Guangming spoke to the reporters, saying the system was useful in enabling a single teacher in a particular work station to teach a large number of students in different schools provided such schools also had e-education infrastructure. According to Mr Li, the system brings about efficiency in teaching and learning as it enables the teacher to interact with students and arouse their learning interest. Given the chronic problem of shortage of teachers in the country, especially of science subjects, e- education which is also known as ‘Smart Education’ can provide the best solution since a single teacher can teach students from different schools at once. The Tanzania Ambassador to China, Mr Mbelwa Kairuki, before the tour at the school, informed the delegation of reporters that Huawei had an ambitious plan to bring the technology to Tanzania to revolutionise the provision of education to primary and secondary students. Huawei’s International Media Manager, Mr Schlossglenn James said the project will be implemented in over 1000 schools, benefiting over 400,000 students. He said the new system will improve the quality of teaching and learning that will in turn improve the quality of education in the country. Over 5000 teachers will also undergo ICT training to be able to work with the new system. He said e-education will also bring benefits to students in rural areas who have always been facing difficulties to access education materials as the system places students on equal level of learning.