According to international rating agency, Moody’s the risk of sovereign financing stress was building in Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) as the peak of maturing international debt approaches and countries contend with deteriorating credit quality, rising interest rates and an untested institutional capacity to take mitigating action. “The risk of financing stress among Sub-Saharan African sovereigns will increase as we approach the peak of maturing international debt in the early 2020s. Several countries in the region already exhibited similar vulnerabilities to the emerging market debt crisis in the late 1990s,” stated Moody’s Assistant Vice-President – Analyst and the report’s co-author, David Rogovic, in a report released last weekend. Moody’s singled out Ghana, Gabon and Zambia as most vulnerable to a sudden loss of market access or a rise in borrowing costs as global financing conditions tightened in the US and Europe. Those countries had high levels of government debt exceeding 55 per cent of GDP and three times government revenues, along with high interest and large borrowing needs. This left them vulnerable to a sudden shift in market conditions. South Africa’s debt could reach nearly 60 per cent by 2018, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba recently warned. The rating agency that warned a significant amount of debt in Sub-Saharan Africa was held by foreign investors who tend to see the region as a homogenous group and are likely to do a blanket withdrawal of funds. Even if Sub-Saharan African sovereigns “are able to roll over maturing debt, investors may demand higher yields to compensate for weaker credit quality or to compensate for a rise in global interest rates”, he said. Refinancing existing debt at higher interest rates would test the ability of governments to adjust policy to offset higher borrowing costs. “The risk of financingstress will increase as we approach the peak of maturing international debt in the early part of the next decade,” Rogovic said. An added risk was that an increasing amount of sovereign debt in Sub-Saharan Africa was held by foreign investors rather than multilateral lenders such as the World Bank and IMF. Rogovic said these investors might treat Sub-Saharan borrowers as a homogenous group and do a blanket funding withdrawal. None of EAC member states feature in the list of top ten African countries with highest debt to GDP ratio which is led by Cape Verde (130.97 per cent), according to Trading and Economics. There is a growing concensus among the international community that debt levels in East Africa have not reached out of control despite a rising trend. UNCTAD, said in a 2016 report that despite debt stocks have risen rapidly over the past five years, debt ratios appear to remain manageable. Analysis on national debt sustainability in East Africa shows that Tanzania is faring well compared to fellow East African Community member states with a debt to GDP ratio of 31.2 per cent while Kenya stands at 50.4 per cent, Uganda at 35.4 per cent, Rwanda (37.6 per cent) and Burundi (43.4 per cent).