Tabling the Bill, Prof Mbarawa said the government would form the National Shipping Agency Corporation (NASAC) responsible for overseeing maritime and inland waters. He said that once the shipping agent is formed all deals of mineral concentrates, government trophies, shipment of all mineral concentrates, its products, petroleum, weapons, live animals and government trophies will not be done by private clearing and forwarding agents as it is the case at present. Moreover, under the proposed bill, NASAC will play double role of a regulator and an operator, something that was hotly opposed by majority of parliamentarians as it will be against the free and fair trade practices. “Among the tasks to be undertaken by the NASAC is to receive shipping documents from ship owners, verification of shipping consignments through the Mainland Ports as well,” Prof Mbarawa told Parliament. The Corporation, according to the Bill, will be registering and licensing any person intending to carry out the business of shipping agency in which more than 50 per cent of the shares capital is held directly. The envisaged laws will be operational in the Mainland only except in issues of International Maritime Organisation. Contributing, Ms Esther Mmasi (Special Seats-CCM) said the powers of the Director General are so huge and vague whereas if one decides to exercise them, according to his will, something wrong many happen. However, she proposed establishment of a body that will oversee the entity since the Corporation can play a double standard role to its competitors. Mr Said Kubenea (Ubungo-Chadema) advised the Minister to have thorough research on what caused the collapse of the now defunct Nasaco so that NASAC starts off healthily. Dr Immaculate Semesi (Special Seats- Chadema) observed that the government should find means on which they will control the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) officials who have been denying the State the needed revenue. Mr Emmanuel Mwakasaka (Tabora Urban-CCM) said that if unfaithful TRA officials are left unattended, then, the mission of having the Bill will be meaningless.