The Bank’s Managing Director, Mr Charles Itembe said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that Azania Bank has positioned itself in transforming SMEs’ traditional way of running their businesses. “We believe that our support to SMEs and youths will have greater impacts for them and the nation as a whole,” Mr Itembe explained. He said his bank has been working closely with microborrowers, SMEs and petty traders for their growth and development. “As a commercial bank, we have committed to see SMEs and youths benefiting from our unique services and improved products to grow and consequently contribute to the country’s economic growth,” Mr Itembe said. He said the bank’s support to SMEs and youths goes hand in hand with its commitment towards supporting the fifth phase government’s target of transforming Tanzania into the middle income country by 2025 through various measures, including industrialisation drive. He said SMEs and youths were better placed to contrib ute significantly to the building of industrial base economy “that is why Azania Bank supports them with lenient conditions compared to other commercial banks.” “We have 17 branches scattered countrywide. Among the branches six are in the Lake zone, three in northern zone, five in eastern zone while one in Songwe Region,” Mr Itembe said, noting that next year the bank will open new branches in Morogoro and Dodoma regions. According to Mr Itembe, efforts are being made to ensure all the regions get their branches despite the fact that all its customers are enjoying mobile and internet services wherever they are in and outside the county. “Our digital services operate throughout 24 hours. Our customers do not need to go to the branches because of the technology,” he stressed. Azania Bank in collaboration with Social Security Schemes have started implementing the President Magufuli’s ambitious plan practically by investing in industries. Social security funds are the main shareholders of Azania Bank with 98 per cent of shares, East African Development Bank holds 1.5 per cent of the shares and other 48 small minority shareholders own only one per cent. Current statistics have it that social security funds in the country have assets base worth over 9 trillion.