Speaking on behalf of the government during the farewell party at the Chinese Embassy, Health, Community Development, Gender, Children and Elderly Minister Ummy Mwalimu commended the team’s dedication in saving citizen’s lives. “We are extending our heartfelt gratitude to the Republic of China for its support, which has enabled us to improve the country’s health services. We know you left your families and homes to come and help your brothers and sisters. Thank you very much,” the emotional minister said. According to her, Tanzania has continued enjoying a very special relationship in the health sector which dates back to 1968 when the People's Republic of China started sending doctors. The relationship in health, according to the minister, has focused in provision of experts and infrastructure, whereby the government of China helped the country to construct State-of-the-art Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI), and added that the move has helped the government from sending patients outside the country. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude for the commendable services these doctors have been providing to the citizens who received their services,” she said. The newly appointed Ambassador of China to Tanzania, Ms Wang Ke said the two countries have enjoyed a long time friendship, and revealed that since the first batch of doctors sent to Tanzania in 1960’s, over 15 millions Tanzania have received treatment from 1080 Chinese doctors. “Upholding the international humanitarian spirit, the government of China has assigned medical teams to Tanzania for nearly half a century. The visit has played a significant role in sharing advanced medical experiences, providing medical equipment and medicine, improving the country’s health care capacity as well as consolidating friendship between the two countries,” she said. The 24th China medical team with a total of 25 doctors arrived in the country on August 2015, and worked in urban and rural areas. During their stay, the team voluntarily donated blood to the country’s National Blood Bank and lost no time to reach Kagera region after the region was hit by an earthquake in order to save lives of victims regardless of the threat of the aftermath. “The voluntary blood donation is good evidence of the deep friendship between the people of China and Tanzania,” said Cardiac Surgeon, Dr Sun Long, who couldn’t hide his love to the country, saying he wished their stay could be extended. He said during their two-year tenure, they learnt valuable things and exchanged helpful experience with local doctors, and commended the government efforts in improving health services.