People born then are now senior citizens, and yet, there’s no letup by that ‘trinity’ in harassing the people. Founding President, Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere was on the forefront in drawing attention to his compatriots on those ominous challenges. He coupled the message with the compelling need for them to join forces, as a unified, gallant force, in tackling them. He was a pace setter in that regard. One example captured compellingly by a photograph – drives the point forcefully home. It features him sitting next to an old woman in a village, giving her literacy tuition. Tanzanian subsequently became one of the shining stars in the developing world, on the illiteracy-conquest front. Various schemes have over the years been crafted to improve the welfare of wananchi, within the broader goal of reducing poverty. Relentless efforts have been invested in campaigns to improve health services as well, within the context of tackling disease. Appreciable successes have been recorded in broadening the network of Health Centres, Dispensaries and Hospitals, from the grassroots to national level. And the government is grappling with challenges like shortage of medicine and staff, and some people residing far away from the facilities. It is very absurd and absolutely inexcusable, however, when situations that represent potential blessings are not exploited, for which the would-be beneficiaries become a miserable lot instead. A vivid example is the discrepancy in the deployment of specialist personnel, whereby major urban centres are glaring favoured, while those at regional and lower levels are literally starved. President John Magufuli drew attention on the anomaly at the weekend’s inauguration ceremony of the Muhimbili University of Health and Allied Sciences Academic Centre at Mloganzila, on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam city. He issued directives to address the anomaly, which we fully support, as it reflects the negative tendency of some experts nursing a superiority complex, by perceiving themselves as being entitled to be based in the comfort zones of cities and major towns. This negates the public service spirit that enjoins professionals, who are largely products of government sponsorship, to serve wananchi, wherever they are, and within the broader ‘Hapa Kazi Tu’ context.