Launching the initiative in Dar es Salaam, the Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ummy Mwalimu lauded BancABC for partnering with Muhimbili in providing insurance for children. She said this was in line with the government’s objectives in ensuring people get reliable services at Muhimbili National Hospital and children are among the most vulnerable groups. “I call on parents to use this opportunity that has been provided by BancABC and Muhimbili and rush to BancABC and open accounts so as to ensure our children receive reliable services at the hospital at any given time without having to pay cash,” she said. She called on other financial institutions to emulate BancABC as her ministry was ready to cooperate with institutions that are keen in improving the health sector especially service delivery. The BancABC Head of Retail and Business Banking, Ms Joyce Malai said BancABC recognises the importance of being a responsible corporate through giving back to the society and health being one of our pillars, this initiative came through as a great one to support as it enables us support the Government reach its long term goals. She said after opening the accounts, parents of these children will be encouraged to deposit money in bits & pieces for their children’s insurance so as to have their medical insurance covered at all times through our Mwangaza Junior kids account through which has no monthly maintenance fees. Ms Joyce Malai further added, the insurance will not have age limit to children. “Parents can open accounts for more than one child and put as much deposit as they like because it would go a long way to help their children in securing health insurance. The Executive Director of Muhimbili National Hospital, Prof. Lawrence Museru, thanked BancABC for partnering with Muhimbili Emergency on this great initiative saying this will assist children in not just getting reliable health services but also inculcate in them a good saving culture and planning for the future.