The trials were conducted in 11 districts of four regions in Tanzania (Dodoma, Morogoro, Manyara and Mtwara) which are known hotspots for aflatoxin contamination and showed that the technology reduced aflatoxin contamination on maize and groundnut by more than 85 per cent in both years (2016 and 2017) and increased the quantities of maize and groundnuts with levels that are fit for human consumption. “We are happy with the findings which are consistent with results from other countries where the product has been tested. The next step is to present the dossier on its efficacy and safety to the bio-control registration committee, so the technology can be officially registered for use in the country,” said Dr George Mahuku, International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (IITA) plant pathologist who is leading these efforts in the country while presenting the results. Assistant Deputy Department of Food Security, Ministry of Agriculture, Ms Beatrice Pallagyo said that aflatoxin contamination is a major challenge in Tanzania and are happy that they have this technology that has shown that it can work. Once it is registered, they will then face the next hurdle of getting the technology to as many farmers as possible to ensure food is safe and free from this killer. “The technology is easy to use. The farmers simply broadcast the product in their fields 40-50 days after planting groundnuts or 2-3 weeks before maize flower. The technology will also need partnership with the private sector for mass production to ensure it reaches farmers and it is affordable,” she added. The field studies were conducted by a team from IITA in partnership with the department of research at the Ministry of Agriculture, and monitored by the Plant Health Services and biological control units of the Ministry of Agriculture and with support from many international partners including USAID. Aflatoxin is a poisonous chemical produced by naturally occurring fungi belonging to the Aspergillus species that are found in the soil. Aflatoxins are a serious threat to health and food security in the country and many parts of the world. Aflatoxin has been associated with cancer and other liver diseases, reduced immunity and stunting in children. In cases of acute poisoning, as witnessed in Tanzania and Kenya, poisoning can lead to death. Aflasafe, on the other hand, is a technology first developed by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) and which IITA and partners are spearheading its adoption in Africa. It is developed using the same family of fungi as those that produce aflatoxins but, themselves do not produce the poison. They are also able to outcompete and displace the aflatoxin producing one. The biological control product, known as Aflasafe, is made from non-toxin producing strains of Aspergillus species that are found in the country where they will be used. Thus, the strains found in the Aflasafe product are native to the country where they will be used. The technology is currently in use in Nigeria, Kenya, Senegal and Gambia. Nine other African countries are at various levels of developing their country specific strains. These include Uganda, Zambia, Malawi, Mozambique, Rwanda and Burundi. The participants at the event were impressed with the technology and urged for urgent action to ensure it is available in the country to ensure safety of food and feed. “As regulators, we are interested in ensuring the safety of the product to humans and to the environment. From the presentation, all the relevant toxicological and environmental data which determines to what extend the effects on health and environmental safety have been generated using good laboratory practices and in accordance to international guidelines. It is therefore safe if it shall be used accordingly,” said Habib Mkalanga, Principal Scientists Tanzania Pest Registration Institute (TPRI) The next step is for the team to present a dossier to the government approval board.