Incredibly, the convicts pleaded guilty to all charges. They used machetes in the attack. The most critical fact in the case was that the convicts robbed a rice trader from Tabora region a total of 3.5m/-. The atrocity incensed Mlele District Magistrate who also ordered the robbers to take 12 lashes of the cane for their folly. This social evil, it appears, has become an incurable cancer in this country. The saddest part of this unfortunate scenario is that not only do these psychopaths deprive their victims of their hard-earned prosperity; they also maim or kill people. The current crop of armed robbers is, to say the least, ruthless, merciless, and evil. Before these times, these evil forces in this country carried out their nefarious and diabolical activities at mid-night. But now they strike even in broad daylight. The robbers in Rukwa used machetes to grab their victim’s money. However, What shocks this nation is what appears to be a large number of illegal firearms in highly dangerous hands. These include AK47s, machine guns and high velocity pistols. The Police Force has been ordered to work indefatigably to slam the brakes on criminality. President John Magufuli issued the order in Dar es Salaam in May, this year, when launching the Community Safety Initiative Programme. The president said that the Force should combat criminals left, right and centre with no let up and should, indeed, bring the vice to a complete halt. He was concerned that in some cases, when junior police forces corner a bunch of criminals, their superiors interfere. The president said that this move was foolhardy and should not prevail at all. He even threatened that next time he would order interfering superiors to go out and confront some of the most dangerous criminals who include armed bandits and poachers. The president was especially concerned by the stark reality that armed criminals had the temerity to storm police stations, kill police officers on duty and steal government weapons. He wondered why police officers fail to wrest weapons from bandits. A few years ago, the Police Force announced that it had succeeded in outsmarting robbers and that the canker would soon go into the annals of history. Indeed, there was a lull in banditry as the criminals lied low. However, the morons were only taking a breather. The miscreants of the night are now busy brandishing guns and committing heinous atrocities including murders. This social evil, it seems, has become an incurable cancer in this country. It is this incidence that has incensed the president.