The teams to that were given 30 days to finish the task and comprise sectorial experienced members. Mr Dotto Biteko, (Bukombe, CCM) who is the Chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy and Minerals, will chair the natural gas committee after successfully leading a similar committee on Tanzanite. Tanzania is East Africa’s second largest country with natural gas reserves after Mozambique. It has deposits of over 57 trillion cubic feet. Announcing his decision shortly after Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa’s speech to adjourn the House session to January 30, next year, the Speaker said the natural gas committee will comprise 11 members. Other members announced include Mr Innocent Bashungwa, Mr Richard Mbogo, Mr Omari Kigua,Mr Abdallah Mtolea, Mr Sebastian Kapufi, Mr Dunstan Kitandula, Dr Seleman Yusufu, Wanu Hafidhi Ameir, Mr Oscar Mukasa and Ms Ruth Mollel. “I am concerned why Tanzania with such a large portion of ocean gets 3.2bn/- (about 1.4 per cent) to the GDP. This is the same place where over 400bn/- is not accounted for,” he said. In his decision under section 5 (1) of the Parliamentary Standing Orders of 2016, the Speaker said he is also forming a special select-committee to probe the fishing sector. Citing Namibia, Mr Ndugai said the sector had managed to contribute at least 10 per cent of its GDP, which means there are some uncertainties with the country’s administration. “We want the committee to clear the doubt,” he said, announcing that the committee will be chaired by Anastazia Wambura. Its members, according to the list, include: Mr Mussa Azzan Zungu, Mr Salum Mwinyi Rehani, Mr Masoud Salim Abdala, Tauhida Nyimbo, Mr Mbaraka Dau, Dr Immaculate Semesi, Dr Christina Ishengoma, Mr Stanslausi Mabula, Mr Mussa Mbarouk and Mr Cosato Chuma. The Speaker was, however, concerned by the government’s slowness to table a Bill to legalise the decision to move government administrative capital to Dodoma. He was not aware of the Minister holding the Bill but insisted, “We need the law to recognise Dodoma as administrative capital.” “I can tell you, If you are planning to bring an agenda to go back to Dar es Salaam, just understand that will not be possible under my administration.” He said the Minister has been dilly-dallying, saying they will table the Bill but to no avail. He instructed the Attorney General (AG), Mr George Masaju, to ensure the bill is tabled for mention even for the first reading. “This was an order from the President and if you fail then I will inform him (the President) of the new developments,” he said in the National Assembly. Meanwhile, the Prime Minister outlined the multibillion shilling projects that the government had both revived and is implementing in the country, saying it was a promise made to the people. He said the government is implementing the construction of the Standard Gauge Railway from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro (205 km) and from Morogoro to Makutupora (442 km). The projects will cost 2.73trn/- and 4.29trn/- and will be completed in 2019 and 2020 respectively. In addition, he said, construction of the Holili-Tanga East African Crude Oil Pipeline has already started and its completion is scheduled for 2020. On the economic performance, the Premier maintained that the country had recorded a positive economic growth at an average of 6.8 per cent in the first half of the year. Mr Majaliwa advised farmers to start planting crops that are in line with the rainfall trends to ensure food security.