Sealy has built a reputation for innovation and excellence spanning over 100 years and is currently the leading international Bedding Brand in the world. Sealy beds are orthopaedically designed to provide the best comfort, support and durability for a superior sleep experience. The firm has a wide range of beds to suit all the requirements of the hospitality industry, all offering levels of comfort and durability incorporating a range of unique features. “More than 40 million people around the world are sleeping better tonight and waking up feeling great because they all go to bed on a Sealy mattress. We stop at nothing to ensure you get maximum benefit from your sleep,” a statement read in part. According to the statement, good night sleep heals the body, restore energy, facilitates growth, boosts and maintains general health, sharpens the mind, helps with learning and promotes mental development. “Remember you spend a third of your life sleeping. Today there are a number of different Sealy ranges to choose from, yet every generation of Sealy is made with one goal in mind: to become your proud supporter,” the statement added. La-Z-Boy Sofa sets & Recliners La-Z-Boy furniture is manufactured and distributed under licence in many countries around the world. La-ZBoy holds US and international patents on more than 200 different styles and mechanisms. The first design was founded and created in 1928 and has been a leading supplier of quality recliners and a proud ambassador of living life comfortably. “The future of seating is now here. Sitting is something that we do a lot of, which is why it is such a hot topic amongst designers, researchers and health specialists alike. The seating in your home needs to look good, it needs to be functional, and it needs to offer healthy and ergonomic support for your body. Ryan Beattie from Bravo Group, Famous Furniture Limited the distributors of La-ZBoy mentions. “Today it is no longer acceptable to invest in seating just because it looks good – it needs to be comfortable and it is expected to offer true ergonomic support for your body as well, especially if you are sitting in it for any length of time.”