The Prime Minister delivered the uplifting speech when gracing the climax of Zanzibar Jimbo Cup tournament at Amani Stadium here on Saturday. Majaliwa, a teacher and football coach by profession, noted that sports is currently the biggest employing sector, which attracts millions of young people and urged Tanzanian youth to make good use of their sporting talent. “You should take sports seriously because it can guarantee you a secure and well paid occupation,” the Prime Minister told the Isles’ sportsmen and women, while hailing organisers of the tournament. He implored the players to keep working hard and pursue their dreams, and called on Tanzanians to invest more in sports and use them for a worthwhile cause. “This is a good example that should be emulated by all other regions with the view to help youth into employment,” the PM urged. He lauded Uzini Representative, Mohamed Raza Hassanali, who sponsored the tournament. He advised the organizing committee to ensure they select best players from the event, who can form ruling party, Chama Cha Mapinduzi’s football team. CCM head office’s side emerged champions after coming from down to trounce Kwahani Constituency team 3-1 in the thrilling final match. Kwahani drew the first blood, when Yussuf Juma found the back of the net after 15 minutes but the boys from the head office drew the parity ten minutes later through Kheri Makame. Makame put his side ahead two minutes after the half hour mark and the winners went for the breather 2-1 up. On resumption, both teams tried to create chances, but it was the Head Office team who were able to affirm their superiority in the final after notching the third goal that put the game beyond Kwahani’s reach. Haitham Khamis was the goal scorer, slamming the ball home in the 65th minute. The winners were awarded a Toyota Carry vehicle and trophy presented to them by the Prime Minister, Majaliwa. Runners-up Kwahani pocketed 3m/-, while second runners-up Kikwajuni constituency took home 2m/-. Mfenesini constituency team was voted most disciplined team, and Head Office’s goalkeeper Vuai Makame Jecha emerged best player of the tournament.