His written words in the foreword of the catalogue, which accompanied the 10- day exhibition, along Shaaban Robert Street, are proof of this reality. Arya, who is also his country’s representative to the East African Community (EAC), refers to the visiting Sharma, as being “a young, vibrant Indian painter.” He also refers to the artist’s on-going exhibition, ‘Equilibrium’, as having “captured the essence of spirituality and reflection”. These, according to him are some of the ‘defining features’ of Indian civilisation and values. However, these credits have not made the artist’s works only appealing to his countrymen and women, according to the Emissary. Their impact and appeal in the global thought process and human values is widely recognised. Now, on the other angle, India has had centuries-old connections with East Africa, which, he says are reflected in the life, art, culture, language, food and in so many ways in Tanzania and other countries of the region. This makes Dar es Salaam, an ideal location to exhibit the works of this modern Indian painter, which represents the High Commission’s outreach in the region. “In this way, he (Sharma) has amalgamated the modern and traditional India. I think lots of people who travel are also impressed or surprised by the combination of the old and new, which coexist in India and the way it translates in different ways and manifestations in day-to-day life. I think the exhibition is interesting because it takes one to a deeper level of understanding of India and its culture,” the HC said. He then went on to give an example of this as being a software computer engineer wearing a red spot on their forehead and following a regular prayer and or fasting routine, at the same time. Now Sharma’s paintings, theme of the exhibition plus combination of pieces displayed, according to the HC, brings together the whole idea the essence of India. Seeing that the HC also acknowledged the ‘important support’ this exhibition received from the resident Swiss Ambassadors, Arthur and Florence Mattli, the ‘Daily News’ went in search of a word from them. It was rather fortunate to have bumped into Amb Arthur Mattli, who is also his country’s representative of the EAC and Zambia, at the exhibition, one evening during the week. Amb Mattli, who is the curator of the Equilibrium exhibition here, referred to Sharma as being a friend of his family for many years now. He had curetted an exhibition for him in Switzerland, from which Sharma has secured a ‘collector fellowship’ there and in other countries in Europe for his work. This is one reason why he thought it fitting to bring him and his paintings here. “The second reason is that the more we get to know Tanzanian artists, it became to me very important to expose them to other artists, who are international- known and established artists. In order to have a kind of cross-polygonation and possibility of exchange between the artists,” Amb Mattli said. This is important to him because they, at the embassy, he says, want to support local artists and one of the best ways to do this is by inviting other artists, so ‘something magical’ could happen. According to the Ambassador, the visiting Sharma had already met a group of local artists last Sunday and another group at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM) last Monday, as part of a series of lay down meetings. Having been a follower of the Indian contemporary art scene for the last 15 years, the Ambassador has come to the realisation that this Fine Artist’s works has ‘incredible equilibrium,” hence the name of the exhibition. He likes the way the artist manages to balance the past and present, abstract with realism, mystic with very concrete things and colours with light. All of this, he sees as acts of balance. “And he is an artist who doesn’t know any shortcuts. You see the sweat of his work. The months of work on one single canvas that puts that quality of hand craftsmanship that goes into that work, which I greatly salute,” he said. Cultivating patience is also a message, Amb Mattli thinks many local artists need, so that they can dedicate themselves entirely to their artwork. This, he maintains, will help raise them up into higher positions. The fact that Sharma comes from one of the oldest and most traditional Art schools in India, where students have to “master the pencil and the brush,” he says, makes him unique. However, this background has not stopped the artist from exploring different techniques to an extreme, neither daring to reinvent subjects, which are traditionally depicted. For like a musician, he always comeup with a new variation of it. This, for the Envoy is ‘just absolutely great.’ Just in case standing in front of Sharma’s paintings was not enough to convey something of his temperament, then hearing him talk about his life and work, with so much emotion and conviction certainly should. Amongst other things, this last of five siblings, told the ‘Daily News’ that bearing in mind everyone’s first teachings come from the home; he credits his parents for how he has become. It was them, he maintains, who managed to teach him ‘one has to have faith.’ Without this faith one ‘will never achieve’ what they want to. No matter how many bad days one may have, there’ll always be one day, which is good. That is for the one who has faith, he maintains. “If you don’t have faith, then you’ll never believe in what you’re doing. So, I give all the credit to my Dad and Mum, who gave us that thing from our childhood,” he suggested. The visiting Fine Artist, who returns home this coming Sunday, admitted having many subjects in his works, which are based on his life’s journey. His paintings are his platform where he showcases what he wants to say. This was his first time in Africa, to which he hopes to come again, so that he can see and experience what ever comes his second time here. He knows when he leaves African soil, he’ll leave with memories that will be reflected in his next works. What he doesn’t know is in what ways.