Principal Resident Magistrate Respicius Mwijage, who was conducting the trial, set free the duo immediately after receiving a “nolle prosequi” certificate issued by the DPP. The DPP’s decision comes few days after Malima’s appointment as new Regional Commissioner (RC) for Mara. Senior State Attorney Mutalemwa Kishenyi presented the certificate in question on behalf of the DPP, citing section 91(1) of the Criminal Procedure Act (CPA), stating that the Republic would no longer prosecute the duo on the of fences they were charged with. It was not an easy task for the court to allow the prosecution to drop the charges. Initially, the trial attorney had informed the court that the prosecution had summoned a witness to testify in the yesterday’s session. But, the process was pre-empted by the decision of the DPP. Magistrate Mwijage called upon the prosecution to assign reasons as to why they were withdrawing the charges against the accused at such stage. The trial attorney, however, rushed to read the provision under which the DPP had relied upon to issue the certificate in question. He disclosed that under the cited provision, the DPP was not obliged to state any reason for his decision. Section 91 (1) reads that in any criminal case and at any stage thereof before verdict or judgment, as the case may be, the Director of Public Prosecutions may enter a nolle prosequi. It may be either by stating in court or by informing the court concerned in writing on behalf of the Republic that the proceedings shall not continue; and thereupon the accused shall at once be discharged in respect of the charge for which the nolle prosequi is entered. According to the provision, if the accused has been committed to prison shall be released, or if on bail his recognizance shall be discharged; but such discharge of an accused shall not operate as a bar to any subsequent proceedings against him on account of the same facts. Therefore, the Magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and discharged the accused accordingly. He, however, warned them that as far as the provision cited was concerned, the prosecution could re-arrest and charge them with same offences containing same facts. Nolle prosequi is a legal term and Latin phrase, meaning “be unwilling to pursue”, a phrase amounting to “do not prosecute”. It is used in many common law criminal prosecution contexts to describe a prosecutor’s decision to voluntarily discontinue criminal charges either before trial or verdict is given. It was alleged during the trial that on May 15, 2017 at Masaki area, Kinondoni District in the City, with intent to resist apprehension, Kigwande assaulted Mwita Joseph, an Operation Officer of Priscane Business Enterprises. The prosecution had told the court that Joseph was apprehending the said accused for wrongful parking; he was then driving a vehicle with Registration No T587 DDL, thereby causing bodily harm to the said officer. According to the prosecution, on the same time and place, willfully, Malima, who was also the former Member of Parlia ment (MP) for Mkuranga Constituency, obstructed a police officer, Constable Abdu Sasi from executing his lawful duties, notably apprehending Kigwande for allegedly assaulting Joseph. It was reported that during the incidence some law enforcers fired some rounds in the air when confronted by Mr Malima in a misunderstanding between officer of Priscane Business Enterprises and his driver over wrong parking. The police were quoted as saying that the situation at the scene forced the officers to do so in order to restore peace, because a number of people had already started flocking the place thus causing more havoc. According to the police, the driver of the former deputy finance minister in the government of fourth phase administration had parked the car at a wrong location, and assaulted the officer of Priscane Business Enterprises who asked him to remove the vehicle.