The three new scanners that are already under installation, according to TPA officials, are likely to start operations early next year, improving cargo scanning and revenue collection. This was revealed yesterday when the Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Professor Makame Mbarawa, toured the Dar es Salaam Port to inspect the progress made so far in the installation of the important machines. According to Minister Mbarawa, three out of six scanners would be scanning vehicles while three other machines will be used to scan other consignments to be transported by railway, including containerised cargo. “As you might remember, last year, the President visited Dar es Salaam Port during which he ordered us to procure new scanners to improve cargo scanning and port inefficiency in general. Today, we are here to witness the installation work of three out of six scanners that we have so far procured,” Prof Mbarawa said. With the installation of the scanners, it is hoped that scanning of goods at Dar es Salaam Port will be carried out quickly and efficiently. “Currently, Dar es Salaam Port’s performance is the best in the region, but we want it improved further to outsmart other ports in the region and southern region in terms of cargo handling and clearance. This will be made possible by availing modern cargo handling and clearance equipment and births renovation,” he said. It would be recalled that on September 26, 2016, President Magufuli toured Dar es Salaam Port where he witnessed only two TPA scanners out four functioning, creating loopholes for tax evasion by importers through false and under declaration of goods. Some Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), TPA and Dar es Salaam Port officials were also beneficiaries of the poor cargo scanning system, a trend that irked the President and probably the general public. According to Prof Mbarawa, the target was to purchase ten scanners to improve the performance of the Port. Technicians charged with installation work of the machines told the minister that two of the three machines will be ready by January while the remaining one which is described as a ‘super scanner’, due to its huge size and capacity would be ready by February, next year. However, Prof Mbarawa ordered TPA to select educated, credible and patriotic people who will undergo special training on how to operate the scanners. “It will be useless for the government to spend billions of taxpayers’ money in procuring the machines if operators of the scanners will deliberately misuse them to commit thievery,” he said. But, the Minister warned those who will deliberately misuse the machines as all scanners would be placed under Central Scanning System, an arrangement that allows the operator to monitor all scanners installed at the Port. The Minister also said the process was underway to get a contractor to instal a modern flow meter at the port.“I sincerely thank TPA staff for their commitment to work. I kindly ask you to continue dedicating much of your effort to ensure Dar es Salaam Port becomes the modern gate way,” Prof Mbarawa told TPA staff, yesterday. The Minister also inspected the preparations for the construction of births 0 and I-7 at the Port, a measure that is aimed at enabling container ships measuring 400 metres (Panama size) to dock and offload cargo. TPA Director General Engineer Deusdedit Kakoko promised the minister to work on the directives, including completion of installation work of the scanners on time.