The revival of the Council for East and Central Africa Football Association’s (CECAFA) oldest tournament has been received with open arms by sports fans in the country, who are eager to see how their team ‘Kilimanjaro Stars’ win it again seven years after their last victory in 2010. The oldest football competition in Africa goes to the Kenyan capital once again and this time around, it will start from December 3 to December 17. Tanzania last won the CECAFA title in 2010 after defeating the invited team Ivory Coast 1-0 at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam. A year later, in 2011, CECAFA was also staged in the country but the home team lost 1-0 to Sudan in third place match as Uganda claimed the trophy, thanks to 3-2 penalty win over Rwanda. It is Kenya, which Tanzanians believe, is their winning ground after the 1994 feat. Tanzania Mainland won the Challenge Cup in Nairobi after 20-year wait. Previously, the Mainland won it for the first time in 1974 with Lucas Nkondola’s penalty giving the hard earned victory. The country’s representatives have everything in their hands to ensure that this time around, the glittering trophy comes to Tanzania to stay for as long as necessary and dominate the region’s football circles of which it is very possible to achieve. To spice up the event, Zambia and Zimbabwe have been included as guest teams. The rest of the teams are Uganda, Sudan, Eritrea, South Sudan, Somalia, Kenya, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Burundi, Djibouti and Zanzibar. Although Challenge Cup doesn’t seem to account much on FIFA rankings, it must be taken seriously by the Kilimanjaro Stars. We don’t have to go with our heads down to be beaten. We should strive to end the winners since frequent defeats shame us and tarnish our sporting reputation. We must win and boost our image the best way that any formidable national team can arrive. First of all, we believe the support of government is needed since in the past, especially in 2011 when we won, it played a key role in the success of the team. Secondly, TFF did something about the technical department of the team by hiring a competent and experienced coach to head the technical department. We need the players to understand that more cohesion and unity can lead them to the desired goal.