After winning the quality approval from national quality watchdog, Mr Satbir Hanspaul, the company director, said the garbage trucks designs will serve as benchmark for other manufacturers. Garbage trucks made overseas may not exactly be suitable to local African or Tanzanian environments, that is why native manufacturers need to design and come up with those that can withstand local climate, roads and people’s lifestyles as well as being durable and resilient to elements. “But the new garbage trucks models are not restricted to our company or factory only, with the TBS set standards, other producers can also make the vehicles but using HAL design as reference,” said the Arusha-based manufacturer who is also famous for fabricating the specially fitted touring safari vehicles. Mr Hanspaul pointed out that the country was ripe for industrialization and that all producers need to join hand to support President John Magufuli’s initiative to establish productive plants across the nation. “We have everything, required capital from banking institutions; fast internet and phone communication, enough labour force and ample land; all we need now is for people to change their mindsets,” said Mr Satbir, the brain behind Hanspaul Automechs Limited. Based in Njiro’s Industrial Area, Hanspaul builds and fabricates, among other things, specially designed ‘Safari’ vehicles, and so far, the firm has started exporting its products, to the neighbouring countries of Kenya, South Africa and European countries. Three years ago, former Vice-President, Dr Mohamed Gharib Bilal presented the company with, not one but two ‘Presidential Manufacturer of the Year’ awards, issued annually by the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI), this being the first time that Hanspaul won the accolade. Hanspaul Automech Limited, which manufactures the Safari vehicles wagons, previously also won in the ‘Metal and Metal Works’ category while its sister company, Hanspaul & Sons Limited scooped the award in ‘Building and Construction’ category; awards issued by the Confederation of Tanzania Industries (CTI). “Many people will not believe that countries that have car-making factories such as South Africa and those in Europe are now being compelled to buy vehicles from Tanzania, but they are doing just that,” said Mr Satbir. He explained that, the specially designed garbage trucks as well as touring vehicles known here as ‘War Bus’ structures remain to be Tanzanian innovation which other countries find interesting, and that is why they keep ordering the safari trucks from Arusha. “And to make sure that some clever persons out there do not imitate the fabrications, we change the designs and specifications every two or three months so that whatever comes out of our factory lines remains innovative and fresh,” boasted the HAL company director. Previously, Toyota Motors Company of Japan recognized Hanspaul Automechs Limited (HAL) as the preferred conversion company permitted to build the so-called ‘war buses’ Winnebago models on top of its Land-Cruiser series 70 chassis. The elongated safari vehicles whose idea was hatched in Arusha have now become an international sensation such that many countries have started ordering them from Tanzania. While Kenya, Uganda and South Africa import the ‘War Buses’ from Arusha to use as their safari vehicles to ferry tourists to and from national parks, overseas countries are reportedly buying the specially designed trucks to be used in armed forces there. Depending on preference, Hanspaul Automechs, which operates from the Industrial Area of Themi Hills (Njiro), manufacture the ‘war buses’ on Toyota, Nissan and Land-Rover frames. The works are done with specially automated robotic machines inside factory lines that look like any other vehicle manufacturing set up in Japan. Group Chief Executive, Mr Kamaljit Hanspaul, who founded the company, explained that the key to its success was the firm’s adherence to quality and dedication to innovations.