It was shocking and rare incident due to the fact that application of performance enhancing drugs has not been common in a poor country like Tanzania. It was also a big blow to the runners, especially Mohamed Msenduki, who was among the country’s medal hopes for Tokyo Olympics Games, whose campaign is sweeping across the country. In a statement released by Athletics Tanzania (AT), through its Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, the two athletes have been barred from participating in sports for four years for alleged use of steroids, which is named among the drugs that enhance performances. Together with Msenduki there is also Elia Daudi Sidame as the second victim of the abuse. The athletes were diagnosed of having taken steroids at different places and time. Daudi Sidame was implicated of using muscle stimulating drugs on October 16 last year in Brazil, where he had gone to participate in athletic event and later tested and found to have traces of ‘Norandrostane,’ in his blood. Msenduki, according to AT Secretary General, was also found to have used the same steroids after undergoing test in China in January this year. It could be true that most of our athletes are not adept to the types of banned drugs, therefore, we think athletes’ managers and agent might be involved in making the runners indulge in banned substance. Though it can not be a 100 per cent reality, we are still convinced there must be an involvement or persuasion from athletes’ managers whose aim is to cash in when the athlete wins an international event. This should be taken as strong warning to all athletes as drugs that enhance performances, are also killer drugs despite tarnishing the image of the athlete personally and the country when is caught. Since its practice is very harmful, lets all join a fight against the malpractice by all weapons available, to save our nation and its youthful generation. Efforts to stop doping should be stepped up in the country because it spoils our athletes. Let’s all use sports to promote a clean and healthy society, which is full of role models and not drug abusers.