A communiqué that Health Service Journal released in London and availed to the ‘Sunday News’ here had it that the specialised referral hospital and Nothumbria are among the top ten in the competition. With about 1,500 entrants in 23 categories to choose from, the awards, held in partnership with de Poel health+care, reflect the full spectrum of the sector’s services and challenges. The HSJ Awards have grown to become the most sought after accolade in British healthcare – and the largest awards programme of its type in the world. HSJ Editor, Mr Alastair McLellan said in the statement that NHS, Britain’s National Health Service system, continues to innovate and excel, as the 36th HSJ Awards clearly demonstrates and that it has many claims to fame, and one of them being its restless desire to improve and provide inspirational content for the world’s biggest celebration of healthcare excellence. “Entrants have demonstrated outstanding practice and innovation, which help to safeguard and improve patient care, improve value and efficiency in healthcare and have been judged to be leading the way in this increasingly important area. The awards received over 1,500 entries. The shortlisted organisations will complete presentations and interviews to the specific judging panel made up of senior and influential figures from the health sector. The winners will be announced at a ceremony on November 22 at the Intercontinental O2, London,” said the editor. Speaking exclusively with the ‘Sunday News’ on Friday here, The Head of General Surgery at KCMC, Dr Kondo Chilonga and the visiting Head of International Partnerships Northumbria Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, Ms Brenda Longstaff, said the partnership competes in the International Partnership Award that has been introduced for the first time to acknowledge the growing importance of international partnerships in health issues. The category has roughly 150 contestants. Dr Chilonga who is also the ‘father’ of laparoscopic surgery in the country, having attained the skill from UK, said the criteria used in selection are that partnership achieve sustainable change in health provision, benefits both parties, special focus on unit development – and in that, the focus has been on improving theatres and initiation of laparoscopic surgery. Ms Longstaff said their partnership has greatly improved theatres with ultra-sound outreach services in several places, citing Bomang’ombe and Machame in Hai district and Kibosho in Moshi Rural District. They said the service has immensely helped investigations of pregnant women at early stages, detecting and attending to any complication. “Entering the competition and ultimately being shortlisted is really a great achievement for our institutions and their people because some of entrants are in major British Government projects. We are actually competing with the giants in health service delivery system,” said Ms Longstaff.