Mr Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto were sworn in to serve the country for the second term, saying only collaborations with their EAC partners will help in renewed energy and optimism to the country’s unity. The swearing in of the top leaders follows their victory in the recent repeat polls. At the well-attended inauguration ceremony at Kasarani Stadium in Nairobi, with presence of international and regional leaders, President Kenyatta said working together was the way to deliver peace and prosperity, which EAC citizens are yearning for. “We will work for peace in our region, for that is what good neighbours do,” he said. On behalf of President John Magufuli, the Vice-President, Ms Samia Suluhu joined other regional and international key figures to grace the event. She arrived in Nairobi yesterday morning accompanied by Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East Africa Cooperation Dr Suzan Kolimba. “To our brothers and sisters in the East African community, you are our closest friends, our fate and yours are joined at the hip, our troubles and triumphs are yours, and yours are ours,” he stated. He said as mark of Kenya’s continued commitment to the fellow East Africans, from now on citizens from other EAC member states will be treated like Kenyans. “Like your Kenyan brothers and sisters, you will need only your identity card. You can now work, do business; own property, farm and if you wish, and find a willing partner, you can marry and settle in Kenya,” he assured, adding, “And this commitment we make with no conditions for reciprocity but driven by our desire for deeper regional integration.” President Kenyatta thanked Kenya’s friends and international community for standing with Kenya. He said Kenya was a proud member of international community and will always work hard to remain forth for good, noting that they will continue to strengthen their economic ties, bilateral and multilateral relations. “In the fight against international terrorism, free and democratic nation, we will continue fighting together to share our knowledge in support of our allies,” he explained. In his speech, Deputy President Ruto said after the elections, what was important for Kenya to go forward is transformation of the country, focusing on the country’s development and peace. Gabon President Ally Bongo, said: “The people of Kenya have made us very proud, on behalf of brothers and sisters from Gabon. Rwanda’s Paul Kagame congratulated the Kenyans for election well conducted. Apart from congratulating Kenyans, Ugandan President Yoweri Museveni, who doubles as EAC Chairman, reminded them not to only consider politics and forget peace, social well-being and development.