The Speaker, Mr Job Ndugai, said in a statement that Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) Secretary General Abdulrahman Kinana had written him the October 30, 2017 dated letter, stating clearly that the party had started instituting disciplinary measures against Nyalandu for his misconducts. The letter reportedly informed the Office of the Speaker that with effect from the letter’s date, Mr Nyalandu lost all the qualities and qualifications of its bonafide member. Having lost the qualities as CCM member, Mr Nyalandu automatically ceased to represent Singida North residents in parliament. He also lost all other positions he was holding in the ruling party. According to Article 13 of CCM Constitution, a person ceases to hold all positions he occupies if the party strips him of membership for any reason. The letter reportedly said further that the party had started instituting disciplinary measures against the former Minister for Natural Resources and Tourism for his reckless deeds and utterances that were totally against the party values, philosophy and ideology. “The speaker would like to inform the public that having received the letter from the authority within CCM, the party to which Mr Nyalandu belonged and on whose ticket he was elected as Singida North MP, I hereby declare that he is no longer the Member of Parliament,” Mr Ndugai said. Article 71 ( 1) ( e) of the country’s Constitution states that the Member of Parliament shall vacate his seat in the National Assembly if he loses membership to the party to which he belonged when elected or appointed to the legislative house. Mr Ndugai said other procedures to notify the National Electoral Commission on the vacant post were already underway. Though Mr Nyalandu quit CCM on Monday, the Speaker said he had not received his resignation letter by the time the CCM correspondence landed on his table. But, Mr Nyalandu claims to have quit CCM due to the party’s failure to supervise the government and human rights violations. He also accused the executive of meddling in the affairs of other government pillars--judiciary and legislature