And, so is the race for the golden boot that places Ugandan import, Emmanuel Okwi ahead of the local marksmen, Mohamed Rashid, Habib Kiyombo, Ibrahim Ajib and Shiza Kichuya. Mtibwa Sugar, who are fifth placed in the league, are among top flight teams that have not included any foreign import as their youth programme has managed to provide the team all the quality players it needs. Kichuya, Mohamed Ibrahim ‘MO’, Muzamir Yasin, Ally Shomary and Salim Mbonde, being among the products, Simba have reaped much from Mtibwa’s youth programme. It is therefore, wise for the nation to focus its development programmes on this part of its population bubbling with energy. For quite some time, the nation has tried doing so, but not tried hard enough. Areas earmarked as playgrounds have always been usurped by the wealthy businessmen, leaving children yearning for playgrounds and often condemned to playing by the roadside and on undeveloped plots between buildings. Such results should have been taken by the authorities as a reflection of the youth’s dire need for playgrounds. Their tendency to play in any open safe available has said much about their desire to translate into action their bottled up athletic talents. Nevertheless, children’s frantic search for playground has not been given much thought, but ignored mostly as nuisance best discouraged and a sort of their interference in adult’s search for plots to erect sky-high and sprawling business buildings. The Isles’ decision to have an earnest programme to build sports fields therefore could not have come at a better time. The nation has decided to become industrial. That means we could make athletics, or sports by and large, an industry where our youth get lucrative and healthy employment. What Zanzibar has done-building sports grounds in earnest, is an act considerable of its youth, an exercise highly commendable. Africa is endowed with youths with a multitude of athletic endowment. However, these abilities have more often than not been left to lie idle– ignored! So far, our nation is not a global or continental power in football to talk of while indeed we have many Mbwana Samatta, Simon Msuva and Thomas Ulimwengu who have advanced to the global level as alumni of developing youth programmes. Absence of playgrounds, volleyball courts or halls with a ring for boxers has blocked the emergence of young athletes. Without the attraction of physical athletic structures or infrastructure there can hardly be motivation to train is some sport. According to Marianne Engle, sports psychologist and clinical assistant professor, with the New York University Child Study Center, a child participating in school sports stands to gain important psychological benefits. “Kids playing sports may have reduced anxiety and depression. Children can also receive self-esteem boosts, which may improve confidence and school performance.” In sum, it is important for schools to have playgrounds. Yet there are schools without football fields or athletic courts. American Academy of Child & Adolescent Psychiatry also says that sports can provide your youngster with a variety of character-building experiences. It adds: “Kids can learn valuable lessons about how to cooperate with others and play fairly. A child can also develop strong selfdiscipline as he strives to learn and excel at a sport. If the youngster uses this self-discipline academically, he may improve school performance. Sports participation may enhance critical-thinking and problem-solving skills, too.” Overall, sports help to create good citizens, responsible adults who become good leaders. It therefore goes without saying that ignoring the youth’s welfare and development of their physical aptitudes is doing the nation big harm by potential building lazy non-innovative individuals. Zanzibar’s programme of building athletic fields is therefore, a step in the right direction for its youth. While such a programme is good and welcome, it is nevertheless worth remembering there is always a downside to everything. Warning of the downside of sports participation, Engle says it is advisable to stay vigilant for possible negatives that could occur. “The focus of sports participation should centre on learning skills, developing teamwork and having fun. If a focus turns toward unhealthy competition, the experience could become negative.”