In his keynote address while representing the United Republic of Tanzania to the Regional Retreat on Migration held in Shkhirat, Kingdom of Morocco, Dr Mahiga said the unity on such a matter is pertinent as over the past decades, the combination of domestic and international factors have led to an increase in migration both in intensity and its complexity. The Minister observed that massive numbers of people are compelled to move from one area to another in search for survival, better opportunities and protection. He said most migration in Africa is within the continent. “More than 80 per cent of African migrants remain in the continent. According to the International Labour Organisation (ILO), it is estimated that the number of labour immigrants in the continent constituted one fifth of the global total and that by 2025, one in 10 Africans will live and work outside their countries of origin,” he unveiled. A communiqué made available to the ‘Daily News’ by Ambassador Innocent Shiyo of the Department of Regional Cooperation from the ministry had it that the diplomat commended Morocco for accepting the responsibility of organising ‘Migration Agenda’ on behalf of Africa. He warned the participants of the severity of the problem, urging them to share experiences by addressing the root causes. Ambassador Mahiga pointed out such roots as lack or little opportunities for economic growth and social advancement in countries of residence; political and social exclusion, discrimination, intolerance on political, cultural, ethnic, religious, regional or ideological grounds. The others, he said, were climate change, conflicts, wars, violation of human rights and inadequate governance. Dr Mahiga said migration is a cross-cutting issue that touches on development, hence urged the AU member States to brainstorm and come up with concrete ideas on how to integrate it at national and international level. Commenting on the role of diaspora to development, Minister Mahiga said the benefits of diaspora are always seen in financial terms as they give back to their home countries through remittances and informal financial flows. He, however, noted that African Diaspora has a big role to play in seeking solutions to problems affecting the continent. Ambassador Mahiga noted that problems in Africa should be seen as business opportunities by the diaspora, therefore, encouraged them to set up their investments back home as that would change lives in their countries. He urged them to identify opportunities in various sectors and exploit them. He remarked that while the African Union Commission is preparing the ‘Common African Position on Global Compact for Safe, Orderly and Regular Migration’, it is imperative for the AU member States to provide their valuable contribution with the view to improve the document that would be used in the intergovernmental consultation and negotiations in New York in 2018. The Minister also urged the AU partner States to implement all continental instruments in addressing the issues of migration.