That does not imply that the menfolk are not engaging in the said business per se, but a quick glance would make you take of that note. So that sets forth a question on how our policies protect women in small scale business and opportunities opened for them to prosper. How can these women be empowered in the businesses so that one day they can become ‘able’ to get loans and maybe grow in the sector and graduate to large scale level(s)? In fact, most of these women face the challenge of not having title deeds that would enable them to acquire loans for their businesses, as these title deeds are owned by their husbands. In a study I conducted among some women at Mongo la Ndege suburb in Dar es Sa-laam, I realised that in 3 out of 5 families, women engage themselves in poultry, while men in other businesses like agriculture, selling in shops, and in pharmacy amongst other. From there I noticed a wide gap between men and women when it comes to the work they do. Is it the perception or stereotype idea on what form of work men or women prefer in the society? With all the efforts that the government, non-governmental organisations and activists put in to empower a woman, where has this problem reached? It is an undeniable fact that the women empowerment movement has highly contributed to the decrease of the problem of gender inequality in Tanzania, especially in the urban areas. But still with all these efforts, women are still lagging behind. According to statistics provided by Integrated Labour Force Survey in 2014, 12.3 percent of women in Tanzania are unemployed in contrast to men who are on 8.2 percent who are unemployed. Here the difference is 4.1 percent between unemployed men and women. In addition, the statistics showed that while women earned a total average of 386,000/- in salaried employments, men earned 427,000/-. Nevertheless, while 52percent of women worked in the agricultural sector, only 48 percent of men whereas were involved in the same sector. This is because most men engage themselves in other private businesses alternatively and reach 72 percent with women lagging behind with only 28 percent. This equally shows women are lagging behind in terms of businesses. One of the residents, who only identified herself as Agnes, confided to the Woman Magazine that she engages in small scales business like selling lingerie and poultry. As a mother of three and living with other relatives, Agnes admits to be also responsible in taking care of her extended family, while her husband works in his plantations back in Bukoba. She describes women as the backbone of the family, without her, the family can’t keep going not even sustain itself. She says that she doesn’t hold any title deed, hence making it hard for her to apply for a loan and invest more in her petty business. Nevertheless, another residence named Mama Danny said that she engages in local fishing industry as a fishmonger herself at home and that helps her and the family to acquire the basic needs to survive. While she also works as tailor I her own tailoring kiosk nearby the area, her husband works in an organization and studies at the same time. Just like any other business, she faces many challenges. She cites inadequate capital and unsteady market as some of hurdles in her business, proving that most women of her like should also be helped in. “By educating and empowering women with right resources, tools and opportunities, they will be able to use their already established petty business to grow into large scale ones at the national level(s),” she points out. “Very few women have properties with their title deeds which would help them get enough loans to widen their businesses,” said Mama Kamala, another woman interviewed at Mongo la Ndege. She says that is because African traditions are setting the basis of everything that is what is owned by a man or woman in society. However, according to Mrs. Shirima another respondent, the recent generation especially families in towns and cities, properties are now owned jointly between the man and the woman in the marriage. She says: “Even in business, women are now as good just as men. Women engage themselves in conferences and business meetings as men. The only setback is that few men stop their women from developing, and also some few women do not believe in themselves, ad that draws them back in development.” Most women are now highly creating own-groups to help them acquire loans as a means to try to start or develop their small businesses locally known as ‘VIKOBA’. Expanding on that Mama Kamala told Woman Magazine that they depend on the VIKOBA to get money to push their businesses, adding: “Also there are some banks that help us get loans after they realize that we have these groups. At least through this, most women can prosper.” According to the women, it is hard for such women in the country to develop as a result of lack of right title deeds, which are in the possession of their husbands. At least the ones in towns are starting to get educated on their rights and opportunities that they also deserve to ‘improve’ unlike those living in villages. To address the issue, education on property ownership especially in marriages should be provided to women and in addition, there should be campaigns to raise awareness on opportunities for women as being organized by Women Fund Organisation and ensure women utilize the opportunities.