The head of St Joachim Secondary School in Same district, Kilimanjaro region, Fr Deogratius Mchagi, made the plea at the school’s second Form Four graduation ceremony during which 84 students graduated at the weekend. Mr Mchagi said the role of private schools is to “offer high quality science education but the excessive prices of laboratory equipment is a nagging setback.” He added that more students are now interested in science subjects -- a good omen for the nation. Mr Mchagi is right. Indeed, this nation needs more scientists who will help shape the future. Science students need accomplished education in order to attain the required potential. This being the case, the students must be trained adequately. Requisite tools in the form of science laboratory equipment and other paraphernalia must be made available. Possession of proper equipment will remain a dream if their prices are exorbitant. The government should look into this matter and act appropriately. The students also need well polished science teachers. But there is more than meets the eye when it comes to school problems. Even some state schools are afflicted by problems you might never think about. Shortages of equipment ranks high in the list. The number of needy schools, especially primary and secondary schools in this country can be shocking. Some schools operate for years on end without running tap water. Others have no pit latrines. And there are those that have heavily overcrowded classrooms. It is imperative to mention here that some schools have only two teachers where 20 are needed. This may sound incredible, but it is even more astounding to find schools whose pupils take their lessons under the canopy of a mango tree. The bad omens here include lack of school feeding. Some schools of thought believe that hunger often affects the concentration of children in the classroom. Hungry children often doze off or simply get disillusioned. The Magufuli administration is aware of this anomaly and is already working on it. The common suggestion, however, among stakeholders in education is that parents should give their young school goers small amounts of money for buying food or sweets. When hunger strikes in any communal setting, it is often the children who suffer most. It is imperative to mention here that school feeding should be restored especially in rural primary and secondary schools. Yes, the government must sit up and take notice.