Ari Ward residents in Babati District, Manyara Region expressed their concern here over the weekend as they met Tanzania Electric Supply Company (Tanesco) officials who were touring villages in the ward that are not connected to power. A Tsaayo villager, Ms Mariamu Seleman said primary school pupils and secondary school students were finding it hard to cover all topics and make revisions while at home upon setting of the sun due to lack of power. She said that students from the five villages of the ward performed poorly in national examinations and that if action will not be taken many more would be affected as they would not be selected for further education. “You know after school time we get back home where we are required to help our parents. In that sense the only time we are required to make revision is during the evening or night when again we face another challenge_ lack of light,” Ms Mariam said. Ms Mary Lukas, a villager from Ari said secondary school students could not perform some practical training, seriously affecting their performance in Science subjects. “If we had power our children would be performing well, especially in science subjects that involve practical parts, instead of doing the theoretical parts only,” Ms Lukas said. A survey conducted by Sunday News in other villages established that medical services were only available during daytime. Minor operations in health centres and laboratory services were completely not available during the night due to lack of power, forcing villagers to travel long distance in search for the services in case a problem occurred during the night. The villagers also complained of lack of security during the night as criminals, under the cover of darkness, were able to commit crime, including stealing at will without being arrested or traced. In response to the villagers’ concerns, Tanesco officials said the government was doing its best to bring power to the villages across Tanzania through Rural Energy Agency (REA).