Speaking upon the pupils’ arrival from India in Dar es Salaam over the weekend, the coordinator at the Rising Star Academy, Ms Sapna Bhattbhat said that this year’s competition was attended by ten pupils from Tanzania who participated in different levels of the contest. She named the five countries which participated in the competition as Malaysia, UAE, Srilanka, Tanzania and the host India with the total of 3,600 children. Bhattbhat identified the students who participated as Aryan Bhattbhatt, Adhi Kirubakaran, Mayur Chudasama, Dhruv Chudasama and Darshan Chudasama from the International School of Tanganyika (IST). Others are Shaurya Kumar (Genesis), Aadi Chauchan and Vaibhavi Sadguru from the Indian School, Mahek Desai (DIA) and Asha-lul Abshir from Feza International. “The competition helps the kid’s concentration, gain mathematics skills, solve simple and complicated calculations…the kids can compute math without any instruments,” said Ms Bhattbhatt. The teacher listed benefits from Mathematics as including growth of moral personalities and academics skills. She said Mathematics was a discipline that one could not avoid as it increased competency in every subject. She observed that Abacus was a Chinese instrument used for Mathematics calculation. “All arithmetic calculations can be done on this instrument like addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, decimals and square roots,” she said. She said research has clearly shown that an abacus based education enhanced progress in a wide variety of abilities and skills. According to her SIP academy incorporates both brain exercises and a unique multiple intelligence approach to enhance children’s overall mental development. Through focused learning exercise, Bhattbhatt said children extend their brain to discover hidden talent and skill in a most enjoyable manner. SIP Abacus learning is time tested, proven methodology. Child friendly utilising motivating contents to develop children’s self-esteem, self-worth and personal confidence.