He made the call yesterday in Dar es Salaam during a Forum of Incident Response and Security Team- International Telecommunications Union (FIRST-ITU) regional symposium and cyber drill for Africa and Arab Regions that was organised in the city. “Since cyber threats are borderless I call upon for cooperation across borders to tackle and mitigate its effects… the threat of cyber-attacks is real and present. It affects all of us, and therefore, calls for joint efforts to tackle it,” he pointed out. Eng Nditiye further said with cyber threats, all nations are in the same situation, and no single country can realistically fight the attacks on its own. “In addition, capabilities for dealing with cybercrime are uneven around Africa and Arab countries,” he added. The deputy minister pointed out that mixed national approaches and cross-border cooperation weaken the effectiveness of the attacks, and added that international cooperation could help fight the cyber-attacks, certainly at early stages, by not only removing a specific threat, but also containing it. He said Internet users can no longer assume that their electronic communication eco-systems say; emails, phones or personal computers were safe, because even critical infrastructure such as transport, energy, banking and healthcare are all at the risk. The event was organised by the Telecommunication Development Bureau (BDT) of the ITU, in collaboration with FIRST and hosted by Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA). TCRA Director General, James Kilaba, said to ensure cybercrimes come to an end, they will launch a special unit to deal with such issues. He said such crimes will never come to an end if necessary measures are not implemented right now in cooperation with other countries in Africa. The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of e-Government, Dr Jabir Bakari, said there have been measures implemented by the government to ensure that such problems come to an end, but the major challenges are still due to the growth of technology.