For despite there being only a handful of people, who formed the small audience, in the state-of-the-art auditorium, it was an unforgettable experience worth capturing, all the same. The Bagamoyo-based “Kaleleo Sanaa Network” came with their 90-minute presentation of the home grown playwright, Emmanuel Mbogo, presentation of the legendary hero, who is said to have been “loved by the people and a critic of totalitarian politics”. For those, who need a reminder, as to who Fumo Liongo is, it should suffice to say he lived in the 15th Century, on the East African Swahili coast, in a place called Pate Town. Right from the beginning of the play, which is directed by Ghonche Materego, the audience is introduced to a conflict situation, which exists, given that Sultan Daudi Mringwari ruled Pate Town in fear of Liongo’s popularity. Therefore, bitterness filled the ruler’s heart against the hero, which drove the former to do everything possible towards finding and killing, who he saw as he adversary. Mind you, this final blow was only possible because of Liongo’s betrayal by his stepson. The play was first premiered in the main theatre, at the Bagamoyo College of Arts (TaSUBa), in Coast Region, during the annul 36th Arts and Culture festival there last September and again on the 17th of this month, before coming to Dar es Salaam, last Friday. The Daily News was present at the premiere in front of a packed theatre, therefore, can vouch for the impact the play had as being, “quite dynamic”. Given such a beginning, there was no doubt that by last Friday the cast of 35 and six crew members would have gained more experience and confidence at what they were doing. That being the case, an audience, one would think, should have more reasons for making sure they attended this performance. However, that wasn’t the case, at all, as the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, noticed and commented on. There’s a phenomenon going on here that shouldn’t be left to continue. A solution must be sought until found. Throughout his travels in East African countries he sees people still have a culture of reading books, which he says has “totally disappeared” here. Instead, people tend to go for unserious reading materials to pass away their time with. “At the same time, the theatre is going in Tanzania. This is why you see only a handful of people in there. But I was in Uganda and the national theatre was fully packed to the brim and there was a play by a Ugandan. This is why I’ve invited the theatre group for us to meet in Dodoma for discussions to find out how we can revive our long-standing tradition of very strong theatre here,” Minister Mwakyembe said. In the short speech he made during his short address to the audience, the Minister made his feelings very clear concerning what he saw as abnormal. He also spoke strongly about wanting to redress the situation before it was allowed to proceed any further. This is why he asked for discussions to start now to this end. He was not the only one who had something to say, neither. When the Daily News got a chance to hear what the Executive Secretary of the Film Board and Stage Plays, Joyce Fissoo, had to say, she also remarked on this situation. She started by praising the troupe for the quality of performance they had presented that evening and for their efforts to revive the local tradition of live stage plays, which had started to disappear. She was quite specific when explaining her admiration for the way they handled a very difficult topic, which includes even handling the props during changes of scenes, with such professionalism. Such presentations she says have a lot to teach apart from the actual story-line. Hence, why she advices locals to come and see for themselves instead of just staying at home. “This play has been put together in a fully professional way by professionals. Many of those who participated are former teachers of TaSUBa, who are people that have taught a variety of youngsters over the years. Now they’ve come together with other youngsters with the package,” Fissoo said. In regards to the point made by Minister Mwakyembe, the Executive Secretary agreed that theatres in neighbouring countries do get good audiences but also mentioned two very important factors that help create such a situation. These are having enough theatres where artists can present their plays and adequate advertising made in advance of the performance to inform locals of the up-coming event. Locally-based well-known writer, publisher and founder of “Mkuki na Nyota” publishing house, Walter Bgoya, simply told the Daily News it made him feel very sad and depressed to see that there’s no response at all to this wonderful work of these young and older people. “But as the Minister says, we seem to be completely becoming less and less interested in the arts... not interested in reading, not interested in books and not interested in theatre. The only thing we seem to be interested in is football and boxing. One could use very hard words. We’re becoming uncultured here,” Bgoya said. “Now, I’d like to say, however, these things are not happening out of nowhere. I think that the State is not supporting any of these Arts. There’s no school of music, dance or proper theatre. So how do you expect people to be interested? You’re only giving them television, that’s all. There’re just passive consumers. You’re not making them create Art,” he added, while not being able to hide his facial expression of displeasure. If any of this drive towards teaching youngsters to create Art is done, he maintains, it’s done at an amateurish level. It should be taken seriously and the subject of Art should be taught in schools, just like any other he, maintains. The current practice, he says does not create an environment whereby anyone can develop their artistic skills, in whatever area, be it the Fine Arts or Performing Arts. The former Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIFF) Director, Professor Martin Mhando told the Daily News, “I think we lost the way some time ago because this was a major past-time here. This should be nurtured from school. When children and young people acknowledge the power of theatre that is what actually happens, and then you can build form this.” He went as far as to say, if this cannot be done, “theatre will die” here. It has to put back into the school curriculum, he maintains. For Mhando, theatre is the basis of drama. However, what is even more interesting about this art form is its capacity to bring together all the elements of Art together on one stage, at the same time. In a film, he explains, people are more involved with the “emotional relationship” and not the “artistic merging” that happens on stage. “You can see from this play (Fumo Liongo) how dance, music, design and sound make their presence felt. You see each one of them coming up together. An audience acknowledges the different artistic inputs that communication of the theatrical nature does. That is what makes theatre so powerful. It’s immediate and its impact is absolutely of the moment. That you cannot get anywhere else,” Prof Mhando suggested. No one was more disturbed than the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Chair in Pan-African Studies, at the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), Professor Penina Mlama. Being a specialise in theatre, it was not surprising to hear that she was also disappointed to see such a small audience for what she called a “good performance that had a lot of work put into it.” For the Don, this country lost direction somewhere along the way because Art activities were part of school life before. As a nation, she believes “we’ve lost touch with creativity” and current happenings are only the result of this. The most important thing that should be done to redress the undesirable situation, Prof Mlama says is to”mainstream Art in schools”. And that is not only as an extra curriculum activity but as a subject. According to her, this is how young talent can be developed because children, who are taught dance, for example, “will appreciate dance, create dance and even go on to create their artistic skills”. No child, she proposed should be expected to become an artist or even appreciate Art if they have not been exposed to it, while young.