She spends up to four hours a day looking for firewood. There are no more trees left around here, and we need to look at new spots. We have no choice, we need to cook for our children , she said.Ngara District, in northeastern Tanzania has been receiving declining rainfall due to various reasons including a prolonged dry spell that hit Kagera Region last year.In Ngara District there are few shoddy characters known as Wavulati , who claim to possess super powers to bring rain or to stop it from raining , until they were given gifts including goats and money.The Kagera Regional Administrative Secretary (RAS), Diwani Athumani visited the district recently and appealed to the farmers in Kagera Region to utilize sparingly the ongoing rains by planting fast maturing crops and must ensure that drainage systems are kept clean to avoid looming floods.Mr Athumani, who is the former Director for Criminal Investigations (DCI), also warned individuals who cheat people claiming that they possess powers to bring rain and stop it from raining .Such people are thieves. They must be arrested and prosecuted, he said. Production of both cash and food crops in the area has been declining mainly due to poor soil fertility.The farmers in the area use very little amount of fertilizers on their farms. During 1988/89 season a total of 478.1 tonnes of fertilizers were distributed to villages in the region out of which only 159 tonnes were used by the farmers.In 1991/92 season a total of 258.05 tonnes of fertilizers were distributed to villages out of which 85.2 tonnes were utilized. Tanzania loses around 2,500 acres of forests every day with an estimated 61 percent of the country now facing a real threat of desertification, the government of Tanzania has warned.The massive scale of destruction to the country s environment means that many sources of water, mostly in rain-forests, are being decimated. One of the biggest causes of deforestation is the widespread use of charcoal for cooking food.Charcoal is a big business in Tanzania and continues to flourish. More than 90 percent of all families in the countryside either use firewood or charcoal as a source of energy. Rural electrification has gathered pace, but electricity cannot solve the people s energy needs due to the price factor.Natural gas has also been discovered in the country and has been used in power generation since 2014, but has not provided a solution for cooking energy. As the world celebrated the World Environmental Day (WED), awareness and action for the protection of environment still remains a thorny problem in Tanzania.Over the years the World Environment Day (WED) has grown to be a broad, global platform for public outreach that is widely celebrated by stakeholders in more than 100 countries.It also serves as the people s day for doing something positive for the environment, galvanizing individual actions into a collective power that generates an exponential positive impact on the planet.WED has been a flagship campaign for raising aware ness on emerging environmental issues from marine pollution and global warming, to sustainable consumption and wildlife crime. Connecting People to Nature , which is the theme for this year implores us to get outdoors and into nature, to appreciate its beauty and its importance, and to take forward the call to protect the Earth that we share.It also invites us to think about how we are part of nature and how intimately we depend on it. National Environmental Management Council (NEMC) of Tanzania last week ordered all plastic bag manufacturers in the country to strategically establish recycling plants to curb environmental degradation.The order comes as the country faces critical challenges due to indiscriminate litter of the environment by plastic materials, in particular. According to NEMC, for some years, the government has been fighting environmental pollution across the country, with production and use of plastic bags proving to be among the toughest issues to control.Land-related issues will continue to threaten global stability, especially if the efforts of climate change exacerbate existing problems. Deforestation and unsustainable land use have degraded soils, altered rainfall patterns and increased the incidence of extreme weather events.Continent- wide, 65 per cent of land has been degraded, and three per cent of agricultural gross domestic product is lost annually, owing to soil and nutrient loss on farmland.To accelerate restoration efforts, communities must be mobilized, and farmers must be empowered to restore their own land. Land restoration is not just a technique to improve subsistence farming.It can also deliver financial returns for businesses and investors. There is strong evidence demonstrating the vulnerability of rain fed agriculture to negative impacts of climate change.There is a need for multi-level interventions on adaptation to climate change and variability.The disappearing glaciers of Kilimanjaro are attracting broad interest. Less conspicuous but ecologically far more significant is the associated increase of frequency and intensity of fires on the slopes of Kilimanjaro, which leads to a downward shift of the upper forest line by several hundred meters as a result of a drier (warmer) climate since the last century.Reduced rainfall during the dry season, which is projected to be exacerbated in the future on continental Africa, will probably reduce ungulate populations. Recent analyses have highlighted species range shifts in both animals and plants in response to climate change during the past century.Such changes can decouple the contemporary relationships among ungulate species and create novel combinations of species. Future forecasts for continental Africa suggest substantial species losses and major reshuffling in community composition, due to the composite effects of climate change and land transformations.