Besides DCs superintending over people who benefit from projects being undertaken in the cluster, other participants includ ed representatives of public and private sectors, as well as nonstate institutions.The head of clusters in the Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of Tanzania (Sagcot), Ms Maria Ijumba, told the participants that the southern corridor was a huge tract encompassing big administrative regions in the southern highlands.To start with, she explained, Sagcot created clusters that include Ihemi, to launch its operations. The strategy, she said, was to explore and publicise agricultural opportunities in the region so as to draw the attention of local and foreign investors, as well as service providers.Sagcot is an international public-private partnership whose thrust is to transform the corridor s agricultural productivity. Ms Ijumba said clusters were started to enable peasants work closely with other agricultural sector stakeholders, particularly buyers of farm produce, the government and farm input suppliers.She said Sagcot focused on the chain value in relation to crops being grown, to make them readily marketable. If we shall invest in productivity but crops are not bought, it make no sense, she said, adding We work closely with buyers for a simple reason: we want them to tell us what they want so that the peasant knows well in advance what the market is interested in. Ms Ijumba said Sagcot wants farm produce processing industries to be established in clusters, as they would motivate farmers into working hard but also reduce haulage costs from production to processing centres. We also want to attract in vestors who supply inputs and those who can provide excellent storage facilities right in the clusters, she said.Iringa Urban District Commissioner (DC) Richard Kasesela praised the cluster programme as unique because, he said, it brought together peasants, the government and business people to discuss the future of the peasants. In our district, we are doing well in tomato growing and dairy farming. I am delighted that businesspersons are working closely with peasants. He cited, as an example, Dash Industries, which had established four collecting centres. This means that even a person growing tomatoes in a backyard garden can sell them to the industry. He also thanked ASAS Dairy Milk which had established two receiving centre, noting that, someone who produced two litres of milk daily could sell the product directly to the processor. Kilolo District Commissioner (DC) Asia Abdallah said the cluster had helped eliminate farming modes that were not very productivity and thus not satisfactorily profitable. Kilolo, she said, had good weather conditions, plenty of water sources for livestock and grazing land.She said peasants were being persuaded to learn from Rutuba Farm which grows various crops on a large-scale basis and produces crops that the market fancied.Wanging ombe District Commissioner (DC) Ally Kasinge said in the past, peasants applied traditional methods of farming known as vinyungu , which was gravely harmful to the environment, including rivers drying up.He said vinyungu was discontinued and irrigation embraced, after a long drawnout campaign. Wanging ombe produces dairy products, cereals, Irish potatoes, avocado and sunflower.The meeting produced a document that will act as a roadmap for further progress in the cluster.