Already efforts are underway to ensure that people have access to safe and clean water in the country, a move that will greatly help to improve their living conditions. Vice-President Samia Suluhu Hassan is happy that their promise to end water problems in Musoma Municipality has almost been fulfilled.This follows successfully implementation of the 45 bn/-- water project that will enable all homes of Musoma Municipality and the neighbouring villages enjoy clean and safe water.Ms Suluhu inspected the water project on Wednesday last week when she was in Mara Region for a three-day working visit. She congratulated the district and regional authorities for the job well done in overseeing implementation of the project which is expected to be ready this month. During 2015 general election campaigns we promised that the problem of water shortage will be solved or significantly reduced. Musoma town and the surrounding villages will now get safe, clean water and the problem of water in Musoma is finished , Ms Suluhu remarked shortly after inspecting the project.She expressed satisfac tion on the on-going works. The multibillion shilling project which started in December 2011 is jointly implemented by Tanzania and France government through its Agence Francaise de Development (AFD).The Vice-President assured residents of Musoma during a public rally held at Mkendo grounds the remaining piece of work which is installation of water supply infrastructure will also be done as soon as possible. There is enough water- we now need to make it available to the people and the money to supply the water for first phase is available, Ms Suluhu said adding that the money of water supply infrastructure in the second phase is also in the budget.The VP said successful implementation of the project which draws water from Lake Victoria was a remarkable achievement in providing safe and potable water to the residents of Musoma.A report by the Musoma Urban Water Sewerage and Sewerage Authority (MUWASA) Mr Gantala Said to the VP revealed that the implementation of the project has reached 95 percent. The project has reached 95 per cent and it is currently on the trial stage. It is expected to be completed this month and have the capacity to serve about 150,000 residents of Musoma Municipality , Mr Gantala said on part of the report.The project will enable MUWASA to produce 34 million litres of clean and safe water each day against the demand which is 24 million litres per day. This means there will be a surplus of 10 million litres of clean and safe water that can be directed to other uses.Residents of Musoma will go without experiencing shortage of water for a period of 20 years to come upon completion of the project. According to Mr Gantala, MUWASA is well prepared to receive the project by among other things, sending some of its workers to get special training on proper management of the huge water project.On his part the Musoma District Commissioner (DC) Dr Vincent Naano said the water project is so unique in the country. The happiness of this project is that one does not need to boil drinking water, you simply draw it and drink.It is a unique project in the country Dr Naano said. Speaking at the same time , the Musoma Urban Member of Parliament Mr Vedastus Mathayo said the project had helped to end the chronic problem of water which has been facing residents of Musoma for many years.The MP thanked President John Magufuli for fulfilling the promise of ending water problem in Musoma. One of our biggest problems was lack of clean and safe water. Today we have sufficient clean and safe water.We are very grateful , Mr Mathayo said. Besides enhancing water service delivery, completion of the project is expected to improve quality of water and boost MUWASA s revenue.While in Serengeti and Tarime districts, the VicePresident said the government is do everything possible to end water problem facing them. Lack of clean and safe water was cited by Tarime and Serengeti district leaders as one of the challenges they face.For example, the Serengeti Member of Parliament Mr Marwa Ryoba told the VP that residents of Mugumu have been drinking what he described as muddy water and asked immediate interventions from the government.The VP reassured residents of the two districts that the government will work hard to solve the problem. I m a woman , I know the problem which women are facing while looking for water.I want to promise you that we will work on to end the problem of water not only here in Serengeti but in the other parts of Tanzania , Mama Samia insisted.