The augmentation of water supply project for Dar es Salaam is an important milestone in the growing development partnership between India and Tanzania. India has now committed more than USD I billion in water projects in Tanzania. The function was also attended by the India High Commissioner to Tanzania, H.E. Mr Sandeep Arya, Minister for Water and Irrigation, Eng. Gerson Lwenge, Minister for Industries, Trade and Investment, Mr Charles Mwijage, Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Paul Makonda and Coast Regional Commissioner (RC), Evarist Ndikilo, among other dignitaries. The inauguration ceremony on completion of the augmentation of water supply project for Dar es Salaam was held at the Mlandizi water treatment plant, where President Magufuli praised the successful completion of the water supply project stretching from Upper Ruvu to Dar es Salaam and thanked the Government of India for its support for this water project. Prime Minister of India, Mr Narendra Modi, in his message to Dr Magufuli stated, “We are truly honoured to partner with Tanzania on a long term basis in this important sector of water supply for the benefit of the people of Tanzania. I recall that during my visit to Tanzania last year, President Magufuli had suggested enhancing our partnership in the water sector. “As I had mentioned to Dr Magufuli, water is a resource from God, water supply project is humanitarian in nature and India would be happy to extend all possible cooperation for this priority sector for Tanzania.” On his side, the Minister of Water and Irrigation, Eng. Lwenge said that the 220 billion/- credit line from the Exim Bank of India was used to increase the capacity of clean water supply from Upper Ruvu from 80 million litres per day to 200 million litres per day. He conveyed his appreciation to the government of India for its contribution to the successful implementation of the augmentation of the water supply project for Dar es Salaam. He mentioned that Tan zania has recently signed another project in partnership with India for water supply to the towns of Tabora, Nzega and Igunga. The High Commissioner of India H.E. Mr Arya said that water sector was emerging as priority area for cooperation between India and Tanzania and the current water projects will see sustained engagement of India in water projects throughout Tanzania over the coming year. He added that India’s total commitments in the water sector to Tanzania stands at about 2.3 trn/-. The Upper Ruvu water supply augmentation project has been executed by two Indian companies, namely V.A. Tech Wabag and Megha Engineering Infrastructure Limited over the last two and half years. The project management was undertaken by WAP COS, a government of India enterprise and the project covers the construction of pumping facility at the Ruvu river, transmission to Mlandizi treatment facility, water clarifying and treatment plant. It is also covers pumping station at Mlandizi, water transmission over 40 kms to Dar es Salaam city, construction of water reservoir at Kimara and rehabilitation of Kibamba reservoir.