Ndesamburo who breathed his last on May 31 was buried at a ceremony that was attended by many people, with the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Tanzania (ELCT) Bishop Fredrick Shoo leading the church service at Kiboriloni Parish. After a vigil at the deceased’s home where the body was kept members of the public paid their last respects on Monday, the body was driven to church at about 0900hrs in a procession, with Moshi residents filling the roadsides. The church service was also attended by ELCT-Northern Diocese (ELCT-ND) retired bishops, Erasto Kweka and Martin Shao. Dr Shoo said the death of Ndesamburo was as per God’s will, saying every human being has life limit. He described the deceased as courageous and developmentoriented person who did things for himself, family but also for others, always believing in and standing for justice and truth. Bishop Shao said the late Ndesamburo accomplished his tasks well and the occasion to bid him farewell should be used for everybody’s soul-searching. He challenged public offices’ occupiers to learn from Ndesamburo’s ways of handling their duties, condemning some selfish public servants who earn salaries from the taxes of poor Tanzanians, yet demand bribes to serve the same Tanzanians. Among the attendees were Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Minister William Lukuvi, Moshi District Commissioner Kippi Warioba, IPP Executive Chairman Reginald Mengi, Chama cha Ukombozi wa Umma 2015 Presidential aspirant Hashim Rungwe, former ministers, Basil Mramba and Lazaro Nyalandu; CCM cadres, Elizabeth Minde and Vicky Nsilo Swai. The late Ndesamburo was born on February 19, 1935 at Old Moshi and attended Matemboni Primary School, Old Moshi Secondary School and Government Commercial College between 1944 and 1959. He joined the Government Accounts College for a certificate in accounts, which he attained in 1961 before joining the Thurack Technical College in the UK for advanced diploma on clearing and forwarding as well as advanced certificate in cargo insurance. He was employed by the Chief Secretary’s office as clerk officer in Dar es Salaam between 1955 and 1960 before he was transferred to the Ministry of Finance as junior accountant and then Ministry of Communication and Works where he served under different posts, the last being in-charge of cargo movements. Between 1971 and 1972, he was employed by Freight Express Company Limited as Managing Director, dealing with clearing and forwarding of all government importations while between 1972 and 1975, he was with Express Service Company Limited as Managing Director (Construction and Roads). He later opened up business chains in and outside the country, ranging from the clearing and forwarding sectors, transportation, hotels and tourism. The late Ndesamburo married Ndehorio Ndemasi in 1962 and the couple was blessed with 12 children, three of them boys. He is survived by 26 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. He was among the activists who initiated UDETA (Umoja wa Kudai Demokrasia Tanzania) in 1988 and later co-founded Chadema, the party he remained its member and leader to his death. Until his demise, he was benefactor to different associations, youth and women groups in business, religious organisations and the community. He was Member of Parliament for Moshi Urban since 2000 to 2015 when he voluntarily retired. In May last year he was appointed the Senior Patron of One Accord International with its headquarters in Lagos, Nigeria while in May this year the World Evangelical Mission presented him with a Distinguished Service Award. In December last year he was conferred with an Honorary Doctorate Degree of Humanity by Japanese Bible University.