The killers, who strike at random, have so far remained silent on their motives. Not many people know who they are and what they want. What baffles the nation is why they largely target armed police officers and steal their official standard supply assault guns.The cut-throats, who are believed to be carrying out their nefarious activities from a base in the city of Dar es Salaam, or from a hideout deep in the bush, also kill innocent people who are not connected to the Police Force.This, indeed, smacks of terrorism. A terrorist group could be sprouting. Ruthless killers such as Boko Haram in Nigeria; the Lord s Resistance Army (LRA) in Uganda; Al Shabaab in Somalia and the late Osama bin Laden s Al Qaeda took off in similar fashion.So, the killers at Kibiti are now busy collecting military style guns and stashing them away in arsenals possibly in the bush. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa has said that the killers, who seem to have military skills will, certainly, be apprehended and prosecuted.Yes, this is the best way to go. However, what the Police Force and other security agents should do is mobilise Good Samaritans to show them where these heartless morals are located and, if possible, where they hide their arms.It is apparent that these killers lack all the good senses of a kind heart and the normal faculties of what makes a normal mind. A normal human being in the moral sense must possess all the characteristic feelings of regret, remorse, fear, anxiety and guilt.These criminals are different. The motive behind their revolting forays must be unearthed. This social evil is likely to become an incurable cancer as the situation is in Nigeria, Uganda, Somalia and other parts of the world.These hoodlums also steal property. It is imperative to mention here that this nation is also worried by the presence of robbers who appear to have smart military style weapons in their possession.This current crop of armed robbers is, to say the least, ruthless, merciless, and evil. Before these times, these evil forces carried out their nefarious and diabolical activities at night. But now they strike even in broad daylight.Then, like most incidents in Kibiti, they disappear riding on motor bikes devilmay-care style, after seemingly easy stinks. What shocks this nation is what appears to be a large number of illegal firearms in highly dangerous hands.These include AK47s, machineguns and high velocity pistols. Some of the guns have been stolen from military armouries in neighbouring countries.