Given the added fact that more and more youngsters are getting attached to this sector every year, promotes reasons to accentuate this optimism that the local film industry is heading towards a bright future.Such views were expressed recently by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, at a number of meetings with members of the local film fraternity.on one of these occasions he told the Daily news being relatively new to the Creative Industry (CI), as minister, means he has to make an extra effort to be familiar with it. this is why over the last two weeks, he has been meeting members of the music and films sectors of the industry.Judging from the comments he made the last thursday, it seems he s satisfied with the results he has got for the time he has spent with these local artists. He went on to admit having learnt a lot through the interactions and suggested there ll be a lot of changes within the coming two and three months. I thought there are just too many stumbling-blocks on the way, which do not really need a lot of effort to be removed. What is simply needed is concerted efforts, on the part of the artists themselves in collaboration with the government. I m sure we will develop not only the movie industry but also the music industry to a higher level, the Minister suggested.It is this desire to help bring about a positive change in the Creative Industry (CI) he says brought him to Dar es Salaam from Dodoma last week thursday. He told the Daily news hearing that a local film, which was conceived, written and made right here was winning awards, excited him.In fact, he came by road, for the premiere of this locally-made Feature Drama by kijiweni Productions called t-Junction . For those who might need a reminder, this film not only opened last month s Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIFF) but also won three awards there.Currently, it is being screened at the Century Cinemax auditorium, within the Mlimani City complex, in the Mwenge outskirts of the city and doing the festival circuits in Europe.Who knows there might be more awards to come! Minister Mwakyembe told the Daily news that the mere fact he had travelled from Dodoma that evening, together with the Minister for Constitutional and legal Affairs, Professor Palamagamba kabudi, should be enough to show that the central government has a genuine admiration, interest and will to support the local film industry s efforts. It s really great to see our young people making movies that can win awards. I expect my presence here, together with my fellow cabinet mem ber, Prof kabudi, will help motivate these young people to do even more and better in terms of producing worldclass movies, he said.He made it clear that they had come specifically to motivate those young people involved in the industry to soldier on and that they are behind them. the Minister did not shy away from admitting that there s a crisis, regarding funding film projects in the country, neither.He acknowledged that many young people in the industry, simply do not have capital to fund their projects. this, he maintains is why too often these youngsters end-up taking-on extremely uncomfortable contracts with unscrupulous business persons around.the government wants to curb such behaviour, he stated and assured the Daily news that they are working on getting into operation an Arts Fund, to help film enthusiasts get some interest-free loans. Actually, this fund had started in 2013 but it s not yet operative. However, I ll make sure this fund begins as fast as possible. And not only that, I ll be meeting cinema hall owners to make sure that we dedicate, even a single day in a week to showing tanzanian movies, Minister Mwakyembe promised.Such actions, he suggested will provide a big boost to all filmmakers in the country. He also said that these efforts are not only directed at cinema halls but also television and radio stations.According to him, the Government wants at least one day a week devoted to showing tanzanian films only.