The aim of this article is to provide 14 tips to follow in order to avoid being overfat. The advice is given to help you stay away from being overfat. Why? The reason is because many people are, unknowingly, overfat. What does overfat mean? Over fat means you are having excess body fat that can pose a threat to your health. How would one know? It is simple. If you measure your waistline (at the level of the belly button) and you find the measurement is more than half your height, then you are “overfat”. Let us take an example of a person whose height is 5 feet 8 inches. This means this person has a height of 68 inches (5 feet times 12 inches plus 8 inches. This person’s waist size should not be more than 34 inches. If it is more he or she is overfat. To be on the safe side the waist size of his pair of trousers should not be more than 34 inches. The threats we referred to earlier are chronic diseases such as diabetes and heart disease, as well as death. Previously we have been using body mass index (BMI) to determine the relationship between body weight and height. Of late some people have argued that we should not cling on to body mass index (BMI) because not many people know how to accurately do the measurements, and calculate their BMI. In addition, they can’t interpret their findings. One thing we do often is buy our clothes. We often buy pairs of trousers or skirts and we look at the size before we decide whether we want to buy the material or not. We also tie our belt almost daily and never forget to increase the size or reduce it if it is too small. In this article the author wants to give 14 tips on how to gradually reduce your waistline when you notice it is more than half your height. 1. Exercise a little each day. You do half an hour exercise each day. If you have tight schedules break your exercises in to small chunks. Try a 15 minute-walk in the morning and another 15 minute in the evening. When you are in the office answer your phone calls while standing and as you respond to callers walk around the room. If you are alone in the office and get visitors walk out with them as you windup your conversation. Use a toilet that is located on the top floor of your office building. Use the stairs and not the elevator so as to go to the toilet or see somebody on the top floor of the office building. If your office is not far walk a short distance from your home to the office. 2. Set a reasonable goal for weight loss. Aim at losing one to two kilograms of weight in four weeks. Buy a bathroom scale and keep it at home. This equipment will help you to monitor your weight and lower your cholesterol, blood pressure, and blood sugar levels. Always remember if your blood sugar is more than 7mg per 100mls of blood you are diabetic. 3. Refrain from taking soft drinks. Almost all soft drinks have some sugar. Do not even entertain the diet cokes. 4. Skip putting sugar in to your coffee. Whenever you drink coffee or tea add ginger into it. If you have to use sugar then reduce the number of tea spoons of sugar from three to one or two if you are using a mug to drink coffee. 5. Roast your chicken, meat, or fish. Don’t fry with cooking oil. If you use oil pour the oil on to a bottle and ration a little oil with a table spoon. House girls like to pour oil from a gallon instead of pouring from a bottle. 6. Cut down your salt intake to 2,300 grams per day. This aspect of reducing salt was discussed in detail in a previous article. 7. Drink plenty of water. If you are healthy you can drink up to 10 glasses of water per day. The water you want to drink should be warm and not cold from the refrigerator. Avoid drinking water while you are eating your food. Some people don’t like drinking water. If you ask them why they will tell you they don’t feel thirsty. If you don’t drink water you may get problems of heart burn and constipation. Ideally you should start drinking water starting from when you wake up in the morning. 8. Make sure you sleep for at least 7 hours per night. If you sleep less than 7 hours it interferes with two hormones. One tends to increase your appetite and the other cuts down your appetite. In this article I am not going to discuss the details. 9. Cut out 50 or more calories a day. This is not hard. Whenever you’re about to eat your meal on the plate measure the amount that you feel would fill your tummy and be satisfied. When you are just about to start eating take away a quarter of what you would have finished and leave aside quarter of what is on the plate. Give it away to somebody who you feel would need an extra share of the food. Then eat the rest. While eating and the food is in the mouth do not talk. Concentrate on chewing your food thoroughly before swallowing. This will help the process of digestion of food before it reaches the stomach. Do not eat your food hastily. Eat as if you are not in a hurry and just enjoy the meal. Reduce portion size of your food on the plate by a quarter. 10. Donate some financial support to poor people. Give sacrifice to the needy, including churches, orphans, widows, and prisoners. 11. Eat a little chocolate. 12. Drink some alcohol but not too much. Use caution if you have to drink because too much alcohol will increase your risk of high blood pressure, heart attack and stroke. Aim at drinking one to two drinks at most. 13. Don’t smoke. Smoking is associated with many health problems including different types of cancers such as that of the lung, stomach, ovary, esophagus. Do not forget that smoking is bad. It is associated with placental insufficiency during pregnancy resulting in low birth weight and small-for-dates babies. Smoking is also associated with poor sexual performance 14. If you eat a sandwich avoid taking peanut butter or mayonnaise. Both peanut butter and mayonnaise tend to increase your intake of more calories, so it is best to avoid them completely. Apply pineapple jam or any other stuff but not the two energy rich stuff because they are risky.