Matembo alleged this before Principal Resident Magistrate, Huruma Shaidi of the Kisutu Resident Magistrate s Court in Dar es Salaam, during a trial within a trial to determine whether the statement should be received as an exhibit in the case.Led by his lawyer, Advocate Nehemiah Nkoko, the accused also denied of having been arrested on May 21, 2014 as claimed by the prosecution. The correct date of my arrest was on May 23, 2014 at Kilimanjaro Bar in Sinza, from where they also took my young brother along, said Matembo.He told the court that on the material day, he was expecting to meet with a client at the bar but unfortunately, the meeting was cancelled. I am a businessman I own several grain shops and I also buy and sell cars, so my meeting was related to my business, he alleged.Matembo said that they had to leave the bar after the meeting was cancelled. Walking to where their car was parked, they allegedly noticed two men leaning on the car. He told the court that he attempted to greet the men but they did not respond, so they went ahead and got into their car. I started the car intending to leave but it was not possible because I noticed through my side mirror a Prado had blocked our way so I pressed the horn several times but no one bothered to move the car.A few minutes had passed and I realized that the two men were standing beside the two front doors of my car and knocked on my window, he said. The accused pointed out that the men introduced themselves as policemen and notified Matembo and the brother that they were (both) under arrest. I tried telling them to prove that they were police officers but they simply mocked me and ordered that I switch off the car but before I could do that one of the guys grabbed the keys himself, Matembo narrated, adding: They asked who the owner of the car was and I told them it was my friend s whom I identified as Meku and that the car was on sale then gave them the card. He alleged that at the time everything was going on, he thought to himself the men could be thieves and wanted to steal the car. All documentations were in the car at the time. I kept telling them that the car was not mine and that I could even call the owner but one of the guys told me to keep quiet because I spoke much. We got out of the car they soon handcuffed us and placed us on the back seat and by then they had also taken away our phones they took us to unknown destination and held us hostage for three days, Matembo alleged.He added that his brother was later set free but that he was subsequently brought before the Kisutu Court. At the court I was charged with unknown charges alongside another person whom I had never met. So to claim that the statement was mine that s not true because I was never given any paper during my arrest, explained the accused. State Attorney Paul Kadushi led the prosecution.The case was adjourned to August 10, 2017 for the ruling of the trial within a trial. Matembo is charged alongside the alleged Queen of Ivory, Chinese Yang Feng Clan (66) and Manase Philemon (39).The prosecution alleges that between January 1, 2000 and May 22, 2014 in the city, all the three accused carried out business of the said government trophies.It is alleged that the trio bought and sold 706 pieces of elephant tusks weighing 1,889 kilograms valued at 5,435,865,000/-, the property of United Republic of Tanzania, without a permit from the director of wildlife.The prosecution alleged that within the same period and place, intentionally, Clan organized, managed and financed a criminal racket by collecting, transporting or exporting and selling the elephant tusks without having permit of the director of wildlife or CITES permit.Within the same period and place, Matembo and Philemon allegedly furnished assistance and directions in the conduct of business of collecting, transporting and selling the said government trophies with intent to reap benefit, promote and further the objective of criminal racket.Philemon is facing a separate count of escaping from lawful custody.