This and future editions will have authoritative business, finance and economic news, analysis and opinion for the East African Community (EAC) region. The East African region has lately been attracting global attention for many positive reasons on growth and development. Over the past decade, it has been the fastest-growing region in Africa and is home to several of the fastest-growing economies in the world. The region is home to 150 million citizens which makes it the fastest growing consumer market in Africa. This means it holds much promise as more and more people enter the consumer class, with millions emerging from poverty in recent years. The region has a land area of 1.82 million square kilometres and a combined Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of 146 billion US dollars, according to EAC Statistics for 2016. All these give it a great strategic and geopolitical significance and prospects for growth and development. With the EAC, a regional intergovernmental organisation of now six partner states, the region is undergoing rapid institutional changes that have turned it into one of Africa’s most dynamic trade blocks with regional integration playing a key role in boosting intra-East African trade and increasing the region’s access to global markets. The EAC has been a key driver of East African infrastructure development (a major focus of the report) and has gradually reduced tariffs, trade barriers and bottlenecks in the region, helping members increase their trade performance. While, we plan to capture all these in our reporting and analyses, we will also focus on the challenges that hold the region from optimizing her great potential including policies that hurt intra-regional trade, non-tariff barriers and infrastructure problems. As a leading English newspaper in Tanzania, we are venturing into East Africa and it will be our great pleasure to see that we have contributed to the growth and development of the region through our reporting and analyses. We would like to warmly thank our readers for your comments and even criticisms which have always helped us to improve. We look forward to a successful and continued relationship. You can always get in touch with us through available communications provided in this page.