The Mainland Premier League giants demonstrated familiar failings after they were forced to settle for a goalless draw against the battling Mlandege, a game that witnessed a handful of clear chances created by both sides.In the absence of injured John Bocco and Emmanuel Okwi, who were not included in the playing squad due to what Mayanja said was a technical reason , Burundian Laudit Mavugo, deployed as lone striker failed to make an impact.The Burundian started promisingly and headed against the crossbar, but then he was well marshalled by Mlandege s defence. He was replaced by Juma Luizio in the second half. Head coach Joseph Omog, who spent most part of the game hogging the touchline, could not hold off his anger as occasionally he shouted at his lead striker, Mavugo, telling him to be more vibrant inside the box.A raft of changes in the second half that saw the likes of Juma Luizio, Jamal Mnyate, Said Ndemla, James Kotei sent on still to make a telling impact and in the end Simba failed to garner a morale boosting win ahead of next Wednesday s Charity Shield game against Yanga.It was the only blemish on a fine defensive and midfield display from Simba, with new signings Aishi Manula, Ali Shomari, Salum Mbonde and Haruna Niyonzima putting up a decent performance alongside regulars Method Mwanjali, Mohamed Hussein, Jonas Mkude, Shiza Kichuya and Mohamed Ibrahim.While Omog refused to give his account of the game after the final whistle, his assistant Mayanja admitted that his side s lack of cutting edge presents them with a food for sought going into the new season. We still lack the cutting edge. The striking force is certainly something we have to look at going into the new season. We re still trying to get the right partnership. Bocco had started to play well alongside Emma Okwi, but now Bocco has picked up a minor injury and we are trying to see how Haruna (Niyonzima) can partner with either Mavugo or Luizio (Juma), he said.Niyonzima, who showed some glimpse of his brilliance during the game, was optimstic that his new side will be ready for the start of the new campaign. Some of us are new to the team, for example, myself I have been with the team for less than a month, so we are still getting used to each other and hopefully we ll be ready by start of the new league season, he said.Speaking about next Wednesday s much - awaited clash against his former side Yanga, the Rwandese midfielder predicted a tough game but expects the Reds to triumph. It will certainly be a tough match for both sides, Simba and Yanga are big teams and neither will want to lose this.But I believe we re going to prepare well for the game and eventually come out on top. Okwi and his Ugandan counterpart, Juuko Murshid were spectators during Thursday s game and Mayanja allayed any fear of the duo being injured, saying they opted to give them a rest.Simba and Yanga will square up next Wednesday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in the Charity Shield match to usher in the 2017/18 top league campaign. Once again, as it has occasionally been the case going into this attention puller fixture, both Simba and Yanga have crossed the Indian Ocean to the spicy Islands of Zanzibar as they sought to avoid the destructions of their noisy home city of Dar es Salaam.