The draw with debutants Lipuli looked very painful to Yanga fans who hoped for their team to answer their traditional rivals, Simba who pulverized Ruvu Shooting 7-0 on Saturday.Lipuli were the first to score five minutes before half time while Yanga equalized four minutes later with the goal whose controversy seemed to ask for an introduction of goal-line technology in Tanzanian football.Yanga s Zimbabwean import, Donald Ngoma headed in Juma Abdul s corner ball and the ball bounced back to the ground after hitting what the referee saw as a clear goal. Lipuli players disputed the goal claiming it didn t pass the line. Lipuli whose arsenal was known before the yesterday kickoff, impressed football fans with a matured game in all 90 minutes.However, despite having a water-tight defence, Lipuli arguably netted one of the league spectacular goals yesterday.The scorer, Seif Abdallah used skills in scoring, his blockbuster from an impossible angle made him a star yesterday. The striker raced clear of Yanga defenders and before sending the ball past goalkeeper Ramadhan Kabwili and the forest of Yanga defenders.The Ghanaian import Asante Kwesi and Novatus Lufunga at the central defence, were the biggest hurdles added with goalkeeper, safest hands between the posts. The highly anticipated game started on a high note with each team playing a cautiously but making raids that most often went harmlessly.Yanga on several occasions relied on the midfield section governed by Thabani Kamusoko and Papy Tchisimbi to feed Donald Ngoma and Ibrahim Ajib upfront.No more goal was scored in the second half after the last converted in the last minutes of the first half despite Yanga looking more dangerous and controlled the game, but much of their attempts went off the target.Still Yanga relied on the long passes, but it seemed clear that the absence of feeders, Haruna Niyonzima who has crossed lines to Simba and Simon Msuva who plays professional football in Morocco affected much the team s game plan.This compelled Lipuli to make their first substitution in the 53rd minute by calling in Ramadhani Madebe for Lambele Jerome. Lipuli head coach, Selemani Matola said his game plan worked perfectly to enable them force a draw. We played against a good team, but holding them at their home ground and win a point is good to us, he said in a post match conference. Commenting on the match, Yanga s assistant coach Shadrack Nsajigwa hailed his players for a good football they displayed, but rued missing opportunities that could give his team a win by a big margin. We played good football, but luck was not on our side. We will rectify some mistakes and bounce back strongly, he said. Nsajigwa said his team would be in a better position when all their players join the team.