Experts estimate that only two out of ten travellers who are going abroad cover themselves with travel insurance while the rest forgo the insurance cover for various reasons.Resolution Insurance, Director General Ms Maryanne Mugo, said the risk of travelling without insurance is huge especially in case of falling ill, missing a flight, luggage loss and the like. Travellers should remember a stitch in time saves nine and travel full insured... but many ignore this adage advice, Ms Maryanne said yesterday.She said insurance help to pay compensation for a client who runs into travel associated emergences, like medical, missing flight and the like. This type of insurance, according to Ms Maryanne, pays immediately should a client run into the said difficulties.She said like life insurance, majority of citizens are not fully aware of such products and risks of travelling without insurance overseas especially in the Eurozone. She said one of the biggest reasons and challenges was lack of enough education and awareness concerning insurance.However, she said a light is seen over the tunnel since some 60 customers have purchase travel insurance through her firm and they are working with four brokers and agents. Traditional airlines are charging same fees in case of missing a flight and rebook the passenger on the next flight. Most passengers have been facing problems after being left behind by the plane and this is where the travel insurance can compensate, she said. Other passengers who lose their luggage therefore are forced to use money to buy a new wardrobe.Furthermore, she said buying an insurance cover was not wastage of money as many people think as helps when one gets into problems when he or she least expected. What s needed is to be sure of the kind of service you need and where exactly you can get it, this is the most important thing.The danger is most of the domestic health insurance are not acceptable overseas since there are no service agreement among organization. Travel insurance has many as 20 benefits but depending to the premium purchased that include 24 hour cover for medical evacuations, ambulances, funeral arrangements and more.Also covers for accommodation and travel expenses if fall sick or injured and cannot catch one flight, and credit card fraud and replacement. Others are disruption of journey if a flight delayed for more than six hours, your food and any unforeseen accommodation you might need to pay for will be reimbursed.