Long distance runner Alphonce Simbu managed to put his mark again in the world s map, winning men s marathon bronze at the IAAF World Athletics Championships on August 6, this year. Roaring applause, drums and fanfare greeted the team s arrival, most especially directed to hero Simbu.Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe was at hand to welcome the team. He was accompanied by officials from the National Service (JKT) and sponsors MultiChoice Tanzania. I m proud to return home with a medal. We knew very well that we had a task to accomplish fight for medals and thank God we got one. This is jus a start, we are determined to win big in the coming events including 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast, Australia and 2020 Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, Simbu bragged.Cheering crowds waved Tanzanian flags as some pushed through airport security to greet the country s heroes as they stepped off arrival lounge at about 18.30 hours. It is the first medal for the country in the championships since 2005.The only medal Tanzania has ever won in the event was in 2005 edition, when Christopher Isegwe won silver in Helsinki, Finland. After disappointing campaigns in 2009 Berlin, German, 2011 Daegu, Korea, 2013 Moscow, Russia and 2015 Beijing, China in which Tanzania performed dismally, many had placed their bet on Simbu to excel this time, basing on the kind of preparations made by Athletics Tanzania (AT) prior to the London championships.And, Simbu lived to that expectation, putting up a spirited performance to finish just behind winner Kenya s Geoffrey Kipkorir Kirui and second placed Ethiopian rival Tamirat Tola. Kirui won the men s world marathon, making up for his country s podium no-show in the last two championships.Kirui, this season s Boston marathon winner, clocked 2 hours 08 minutes 27 seconds for gold, 1 minute 22 seconds ahead of Ethiopian rival Tola. Simbu of Tanzania claimed bronze, clocking 2:09:41, just two seconds adrift of Tola after 42km around a 10km Thames river embankment loop in central London in glorious sunshine.Simbu s latest feat comes at the backdrop of an impressive 12 months of success in which, he finished fifth at the Rio Olympic Games in August 2016, winning this year s Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon held in Mumbai, India on January 15th and finished fifth at the London Marathon on April 23rd this year.Speaking earlier, Alphonce s father Felix Simbu said he was very happy to welcome back home his son. Mzee Simbu had to travel all the way from Singida to Dar es Salaam to welcome his heroic son, saying he has sold their family s name globally, a thing he never dreamt before. He (Alphonce) began running competitions when he was still at Primary School. I could not force him to stop because he used to balance well his studies and sports I let him follow what his heart desired.If I had prohibited him from running, definitely we (family) and fellow Tanzanians could not have been here waiting for him. I am proud of my son, said Simbu jubilantly. He then seized the opportunity to encourage fellow parents and guardians in the country to let their children do what they like most provided it is legal because nobody knows who they will turn up to be tomorrow. Contrary to my son, I was a great football player during my tender ages and used to play as a left winger. Without me, my team could not win. Had I continued playing football, I could have been overseas, Mzee Simbu said jokingly.Also, Alphonce s mother Salome Simbu said she was pleased with the honour brought by her son to their family. He never troubled me during his upbringing. I believe his discipline, respect and hardworking is what has enabled him reach this far, she said.