The government says amendments of the Land Act are on the card to discipline the tricky and dishonest landowners who misuse the loans acquired under the land collaterals. Deputy Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Development Dr Moses Kusiluka told the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that the amendments are ready and may be tabled in the next parliamentary session for approval. “The minister has met and discussed with commercial banks about land and farm owners who took loans for the development of their farms but ended up diverting the money to other non-farming activities,” said Dr Kusiluka, decrying the problem, which he described as huge and serious. He said the government has decided to amend the law to stop the malpractice in the future. The deputy PS said after amendments, the law will categorically outlaw the use of land/farms as collaterals to borrow money for expenditures not related to the farm development. “Landlords will have their hands tied by the law, they can only use loans to develop their farms, that is, if the investor wants the loan for harvester, they should exclusively use the money for that purpose, otherwise they will be committing an offence,” Dr Kusiluka said. He described the current trend as alarming, saying many people have borrowed huge amount of money from banks, threatening their survivals. “We have ordered banks to ask their potential borrowers to use other securities because we cannot tolerate landlords abandoning the properties... we will revoke their ownership and put the lands to other uses,” he said. Dr Kusiluka who also acts as the ministry PS threatened continued revocation of land ownerships, regardless of status, “Even if the owners have used them as collaterals in banks.” Meanwhile, land leasers will from now be relieved of long queues and hustles in paying rental fees, thanks to an introduced electronic system, which starts imme diately, to ease the process. “We will soon dispatch our officers to collaborate with their counterparts from the ministry of finance and district councils to raise awareness on the system for paying land taxes... we believe many people will find it interesting and less tedious,” he said. There are three ways through which the leaser can determine the amount payable -- mobile phones, ministry’s website and ministry’s tax estimate desks. “With the use of a phone, leasers can go to the main menu by clicking *152*00# and through text messages, they will ably access information concerning their tax estimates,” he said. Dr Kusiluka pointed out that through the ministry’s website, leasers will feed information about their plots (lot ID), their information will appear with the payment number and through M-Pesa, Tigo Pesa or HaloPesa they will feed in a reference number to pay the tax. “Leasers can also pay through banks (NMB and CRDB) and all the receipts will be sent as text messages but those who want paper receipts can still get them at our offices and at district councils,” he said.