For Tanzanian boxers and their counterparts on the African continent, the fight will be a lesson for skill, courage and brute force where need be. All the arsenal of the fight will characterise it as one of its own with pleasure and terror. The nation’s amateur boxers will have opportunity to learn punches best for chances and escape routes often invisible when cornered within the four posts of the ring. On 26 August Floyd Mayweather Junior will fight with Color McGregory, a 29-year old Irish professional mixed martial artist. McGregory meets Mayweather as the current UFC reigning Lightweight champion and former Featherweight champion. Trailers of films the two fighters’ matches have shown swaths of destruction in the ring. Still, nothing makes more fans put their bet on Mayweather than his fight with a Mexican boxer Santos Saul Alvarez Barragain that day of Sept. 14, 2013. Saul Alvarez common as Canelo Alvarez is as good a boxer as they come. A classy boxer, he has an arsenal of lethal combinations he can unleash again and again with the force of a tornado. In a tough fight, Mayweather by far outmatched, out-boxed and out classed Alvarez to win the fight in a unanimous decision. Mayweather applies that ruthless skill to behead the opponent when he finds himself in a deadly corner and his skin is on the line. The older-40 years Mayweather or Money Man, goes into the fight as world champion in the Lightweight, Featherweight, Light welterweight Welterweight, Super Featherweight and Light Middleweight divisions. Some boxing pundits condemn Mayweather-McGregory forthcoming fight as a clash that diminishes Mayweather’s legacy and is bad for boxing image. As a result, except for sheer greed for money, nobody knows for sure why the two are fighting. McGregory has achieved several global martial art thrones, the ultimate goal and so has Floyd Mayweather. Their games, though generally in the boxing region, are essentially different. One will play strict boxing and have advantage as the game he plays will be what he has always done. That person will be Mayweather. The other, McGregory, will play the game with his hands only, the use of his feet not allowed or barred. Many boxing lovers therefore are asking themselves why the two are boxing at all. To fight McGregory, Mayweather is coming out of a retirement after a professional career of 49 fights with no loss. However, after such a superb career without blemish and so respectable and proud retirement, Mayweather has returned to fight a man who has never in his life boxed. The talk therefore, should be whether at all he can fight an awkward fighter as McGregory, who, as it were, has transgressed into his sphere of influence. Alvarez is an orthodox, a group of most boxers Mayweather has fought. Unlucky for Money Man, On 26 October he meets a southpaw in the name of Conor McGregory, a fighter who has literally destroyed opponents in his type of fight. No doubt McGregory can kick if kicking is a weapon allowed and a criterion to measure risk of the game. But the Mexican won’t be allowed to kick. He can and will use his hands only, best armoury Mayweather can use better. The Money Man has achieved all he could think boxing can give him. He has millions of dollar already. The biggest prize anybody would want is pride and fame. Money Man has both. Leigh Steinberg in his article for Forbes says Mayweather–McGregory contest: biggest purse ever, is a one sided fight! “This is a boxing match, with a straight boxing format. Floyd Mayweather has a career record of 49-0. He is a master of pugilistic arts and rarely gets hit hard,” says Steinberg. “He has never lost against very talented opponents. He is considered the greatest boxer of his generation and among the best of all time. “McGregor is at the top of his profession, but he has never boxed before, either at the amateur or professional level. He has only ten weeks to train and prepare for this match. It would take years to master straight boxing in a boxing format. “He can’t grab, kick or do any of the other skills that allow him to prevail in his sport.” Steinberg goes on, “Mayweather and McGregor are very likely to promote their way into the biggest purse of all time, but the match itself promises to be a one-way mismatch for Mayweather on points.” Money, as a motive remains highest on the list of the reason for the forthcoming fight of the century. Considering therefore all those factors, the fight is grossly a mismatch more in favour of Mayweather. It is not thinkable that McGregory can outdo Mayweather in the sport where Money Man is rated as the best pound-per-pound boxer. There is also the ‘jigger factor’, as it were. It could be why Mayweather is coming back to risk his stainless professional career. This organism – mdudu – lives in all vainglorious people whose ambition is to gather all popular attention to themselves till their death. Boxers – at least most of them – think they are always young enough to beat any other new fighter. Wladimir Klitschko, former world heavyweight champion has retired boxing, but only after he was defeated in a knockout fight by British Anthony Joshua. There maybe people, who think Klitschko would never have retired had he not lost the throne to Joshua. But after the loss, the Ukrainian will surely remain retired for the rest of his life. If, however, he does not come back in two years, he will have proved that a loss truly retires a boxer. So after such a beautiful boxing career, why fight non-boxer athletes the likes of McGregory. Money! With a purse in the regions of $300m Mayweather’s return could be understandable.