Information, Arts, Culture and Sports Minister Harrison Mwakyembe said the mega project that entails sub-construction projects like oil tanks, port, airport expansion and other activities will bring in the region many experts and workers with demand for social services. ...that means a lot of opportunities in food, health public transport, hospitality, air transport and education services, will be available for Tanga residents and Tanzanians as well, charged the minister.The minister was speaking at the official opening of Tanga Business Forum here. Tanzania Standard (Newspapers) Limited (TSN) and the Regional Commissioner (RC) s office have co-organised the forum.TSN publishes the Daily News , Sunday News , HabariLeo , HabariLeo Jumapili and SpotiLeo . The formula is, once you lose the opportunity, others grab it. I will not be surprised hearing that people who have come for the pipeline construction seek accommodation in Mombasa due to lack of the service here, warned the minister.Dr Mwakyembe was optimistic that through a series of features articles published in the Daily News, and HabariLeo , the region s opportunities are well exposed. He said it was clear that the regional administration under the RC, Martine Shigella, has appreciated the Business Forum, congratulating TSN for the creativity and choosing Tanga for its third forum.The forum was attended by, among others, all district officers, district security officers, small traders, including bodaboda riders, and non-governmental institutions. Mr Shigella said Tanga region was geographically well positioned and an ideal place for investments, explaining that the region s proximity to the Indian Ocean, which is the main economic gateway, is a great economic advantage.Tanga is renowned for production of sisal, which commands high demand in the world market. Mr Shigella encouraged individual farmers to increase production. Agriculture is the leading economic sector in the region, with vast opportunities, said the RC, saying he had directed all district councils to allocate land for agriculture and investments.TSN Managing Editor Dr Jim Yonazi said Tanga, through the forum, was now popular globally, acknowledging the fact that Tanga is one of the regions with potential of transforming the national economy.He told the meeting that TSN is the oldest media institution in the country, with 88 years of experience in contributing to the country s development through information dissemination, adding that with advanced online technology, the publishing house can now reach over one million people. TSN will accord the desired cooperation to Tanga to reclaim the region s status as the hub of economic opportunities, he noted. Dr Yonazi said the publishing house would continue identifying opportunities, saying through the forums it has come up with new products of printing brochures, calendars, posters and books, among others.He appealed to the regional administration and other stakeholders in the region to market the available opportunities outside the country.