Judge Lugano Mwandambo ruled against the former Special Seat MPs, Miza Haji, Saverina Mwijage, Salma Mwassa, Raisa Mussa, Riziki Mngwali, Hadija Al-qassmy, Halima Mohamed and Saumu Salala, after upholding one ground of objection presented by the Attorney General (AG). The judge agreed with submissions presented by Principal State Attorney Gabriel Malata, for the AG and other respondents, that the court has not been properly moved. Advocate Peter Kibatala, for the ex-MPs had cited section 2 (3) of the Judicature and Application Laws Act (JALA) to support the application. In his ruling, however, the judge pointed out that such law was not an enabling provision, conferring the court with powers to grant the reliefs sought. During hearing of the application, the respondents had cited other grounds to object to the hearing of the matter. Apart from none citation of enabling provision, Mr Malata argued that the application is bad in law for being frivolous and vexation, thus an abuse of court process and that the prayers sought by the fired legislators, the applicants, were untenable in law. In the orders sought, the applicants were seeking for orders, suspending the implementation of the purported appointment of new MPs, Rukia Kassim, Shamsia Mtamba, Kiza Mayeye, Zainab Amir, Hindun Mwenda, Sonia Magogo, Alfredina Kahigi and Nuru Bafadhili. The applicants were also requesting the court to temporarily refrain NEC and the Clerk of the National Assembly from swearing in office as MPs the new appointees, until their appeal they had filed with the CUF General Assembly has been determined. Having sustained the ground that the application was incompetent and bad in law for want of proper citation of enabling provision of the law under which the court derives its powers to grant what is asked for, the judge found unnecessary to deal with the other sets of objections raised by the AG. Immediately after rejection of the application, Mr Kibatala said he will file afresh the same matter as soon as possible since the order for striking out the application does not bar him from refilling the same case. Had the court dismissed the application, the applicant would not have change of refilling the same. Apart from the AG, other defendants in the matter were National Electoral Commission (NEC), the Clerk of the National Assembly, Registered Trustees of the Civic United Front (CUF), CUF Chairman, Acting Secretary General of CUF and the newly appointed MPs. During hearing of the grounds of objections, Mr Malata had told the court that the orders sought tended to interfere with the functions of the Parliament exercised under Article 68 of the Constitution of the United Republic of Tanzania and that what the applicants were doing was forum shopping. He submitted that the applicants were running two horses at the same time in that they were pursuing their rights before two authorities, including lodging appeal to the party’s General Assembly as per CUF constitution and at the same time using the court forum, whose decisions have the same effects. Mr Malata further submitted that as the law provided, the authority to declare an MP is NEC and once such announcement is made, the only process to be awaited is the swearing. He was of the opinion that the court would open a Pandora box in the forthcoming elections if the process will be suspended. In countering the submissions by the AG, Mr Kibatala had requested the court to overrule the grounds of objections for lacking merits. He told the court that the prayers sought are tenable, as there are several instances where the court has issued orders against the Parliament to preserve some rights. According to him, the court has been properly moved through section 2 (3) of the Judicature and Application Laws Act (JALA) to determine the reliefs sought in the application and that the question of frivolous and vexation was a matter which does not to be treated as a preliminary point. The advocate submitted that such matter was a substantive finding that could be given by the court after hearing the application on merits.