On real term, natural gas has already saved the economy almost 1.4tri/- each year or 14 tri/-or 6.2billion US dollars for the last 13 years from Songosongo field alone. The area is estimated to have 1.0tcf of gas reserves.The saving, according to Pan Africa Energy that made the calculation, was made by offsetting liquid fuels heavy fuel oil (HFO). The amount saved in the last 13 years since gas pumping from Songosongo started equals to almost half the 2017/18 budget of 32tri/-.Pan Africa Energy (PAET) Deputy Managing Director Andrew Hanna said the saving tipped to increase after many industries starting to switch to natural gas. Some industries are now using gas to generate power (withdrawing diesels) to offset power fluctuation, Mr Hanna said. So far some 40 industries have connected to the natural gas distribution network of Pan Africa.On top of that the firm, through Songas, enabled the country to produce clean, reliable, low cost electricity. We were the first gas to power project in East Africa becoming the driver for significant skills development in oil and gas in Tanzania, Mr Hanna said.Also the natural gas has allowed countless smaller businesses to develop and flourish in the country. Due to the demand, stakeholders are currently working out on increasing natural industrial gas supply, which was snowballing fast.Also experts have it that once the country moves to gas economy it is anticipating saving the economy some 2.2tri/- annually as reserves cross 55 trillion cubic feet (tcf). The estimation done last year may rise in future to the better levels since several explorations are on-going in southern areas.Even at the current discoveries, Tanzania is now firmly on the world energy map as a hot spot for the global energy industry. While the country figuring out export opportunity, at the moment the gas from Songosongo.According to Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC), the gas demand has doubled from 145 million standard cubic feet per day (mmscfd) last year to 300mmcfd to date.TPDC acting Managing Director Kapuulya Musomba said at the moment gas supply was ahead of demand but working on meeting the need as per the industrialisation drive. The supply at the moment is good. We can pump 300million cubic foot a day from Mnazi Bay and Songo Songo. The supply will be boosted further when gas from another field at Nturya in Mtwara comes in , Mr Musomba said.TPDC, tasked for distribution of gas, currently is working into a study to map out the gas requirement across the country especially in the Coast Region to be ready in this fiscal year. The study will determine the industrial demand and open gates for how much to be increasing to meet supply and sourcing funds to upgrade pumping facilities, Mr Musomba said. He said meantime before completion of the study they are supplying gas in an ad-hock plan when the need arises. The industrial area in Coast Region is growing rapidly. This is an area where we will supply gas in ad-hock situation, He said. For instance in the next two weeks, TPDC would join 12 factories in Coast Region with natural gas among them Bakhresa juice plant, steel rolling firm among others in Mkuranga District. After supplying Coast industrial area the pipeline will be extended to Bagamoyo then Tanga.However, experts in natural gas industry are figuring that given the government ambition to industrialise the nation, gas demand will surge to historical high in the next five years.To start addressing the issue, late last month, the government approved Orca Exploration through its subsidiary PAET to double their additional gas supply to 185mmscfd from 90mmcfd.Mr Hanna said going by government projection to industrialize the nation stakeholders should start addressing supply issue before demand overtake it in next five years. If the industry demand is real [as per government projections], it is time to discuss for the future, Mr Hanna said.The firm said Dar es Salaam is the regional gas hub and at the moment suppliers are meeting domestic demand. The region needs are yet to be touched. And, the country has the potential to become a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) exporter but investment and contracts extension should start now.Based on BP s energy outlook 2017, natural gas consumption in industry and power will grow at a rate of 1.6 per cent per year until 2035. This signals a potential future export market for Tanzania s LNG.Looking forward, Arthur G. Kanza an expert in oil and gas said in one of his articles, planners and policy makers must understand the role of gas as an alternative source of energy.Quickly implement proper solutions that will leverage its exploitation, energize the national economy and potentially restore a positive balance of trade to the benefits of the people of Tanzania.