Mayanga is looking to keep his 100 per cent record against Botswana Zebras after winning against them in his first assignment as Stars tactician. He led Stars to beat the Zebras 2-0 in an international friendly encounter at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam on March 28th, this year. My first assignment as Stars head coach was against Botswana and we won (2-0), they are a good team and play good football.It will be a tough game but we are determined to win this one again, he said. He said their target is to win so as to keep improving in the FIFA ranking and motivate players in the coming 2019 AFCON qualifiers encounter.Mayanga, who was appointed to charge of the team on January 4th, this year, has so far led Stars in ten matches, winning five, four draws and one defeat. Under his reign, Taifa Stars beat Botswana 2-0, Burundi 2-1, Malawi 2-0, South Africa 1-0 and beat Lesotho 4-3.They drew 1-1 against Angola and drew twice against Rwanda (1-1 and 0-0). They lost 4-2 to Zambia. Stars foreign based players have descended into the country ahead of the friendly match.Belgium based striker and Stars skipper Mbwana Samatta was the first professional to touch down on Monday evening before witnessing the arrival of Elias Maguli from Oman based Dhofar FC.Simon Msuva, who features for Difaa El Jadidah of Morocco and Abdi Banda, who serves Baroka FC of South Africa, were expected to touch down yesterday and join the rest of the squad prior to the crucial friendly clash.Stars are currently undergoing intensive drills at Uhuru Stadium, as they engage in morning and afternoon training sessions.Today, Stars will train in the afternoon whereas tomorrow, they will have training session in the morning only in order to allow the away team to conduct pre-match training in the afternoon. Botswana are due to arrive in the country today with a full squad comprising of 18 players plus nine technical bench members.Meanwhile, Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, confirmed yesterday in Dar es Salaam that he will be at the Uhuru Stadium to witness the Saturday s friendly encounter between the national football team Taifa Stars and Botswana. I know that my presence at the stadium will motivate Stars players to produce a stern performance over the visiting side Botswana and win the game. These (International matches) are the ones I like to attend in person, Mwakyembe said.Stars full squad comprises: Goalkeepers: Aishi Manula (Simba), Mwadini Ally (Azam FC) and Ramadhani Kabwili (Yanga).Defenders: Gadiel Micheal and Kelvin Yondani (Yanga), Boniface Maganga (Mbao FC), Abdi Banda (Baroka FC/ South Africa), Salim Mbonde and Erasto Nyoni (Simba). Midfielders: Hamid Mao (Azam FC), Hamis Abdallah (Sony Sugar/ Kenya), Muzamiru Yasin, Said Ndemla, Shiza Kichuya (Simba), Faridi Mussa (CD Tenerif/Spain), Simon Msuva (Difaa El Jadidah/Morocco), and Morel Ergenes (FC Famalicao/Portugal).Strikers: Raphael Daud (Yanga), Kelvin Sabato (Azam FC), Mbwana Samatta (KRC Genk/Belgium) and Elias Maguli (Dhofar FC/Oman).