Stars skipper and Belgium s KRC Genk striker scored a goal in each half to mark a perfect start for new Head Coach, Salum Mayanga.The match was witnessed by newly appointed Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe and his immediate predecessor Nape Nnauye. Stars were looking to rekindle themselves after months of slump at the international stage, which saw them crashing out of 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifiers and 2018 World Cup qualifiers.Stars used the match as strengthen test ahead of the continental assignments - the 2018 African Nations Championship (CHAN) qualifiers and the 2019 AFCON qualifiers as well as to improve their position in the FIFA rankings.Just two minutes from the start, Samatta raced through Mohammed Hussein s clever pass, coolly controlled the ball with his chest and strode past a defender before beating goalkeeper, Kabelo Dambe at the near post with a left shot drive.In the early opening exchanges, Stars were strong in the midfield, completely outplaying their opponents with Frank Domayo and Himid Mao well coordinating to make smooth transition from the defence to the forward line. Ibrahim Ajib nearly made it 2-0 with a clever set piece in the 20th minute but his shot was tipped over the bar by the custodian. Then in the 23rd minute, Samatta s glancing header narrowly missed the target, off a corner kick by Simon Msuva.Stars looked a side more likely to score and Shiza Kichuya s pass inside the box was timely blocked by defenders in the 25th minute. Botswana calmed nerves and slowly started pushing for an equaliser after half an hour mark, missing two clear cut chances in the 33rd and 34th minutes.Taifa Stars wasted a glorious opportunity in the 41st minute, when Msuva received a pass from Domayo, with time and space to shoot, the wing wizard chose to cross in the congested box and defenders cleared the danger.Msuva was at it again a minute before the interval, receiving a long pass from Domayo but he shot agonisingly wide. After the break, Botswana opted to hit long balls but that was not a threat to Taifa Stars central defensive towering pair of Banda and Nyoni.Frank Domayo was replaced my Muzamiru Yassin. Msuva was set clear by Muzamiru in the 54th minute and his first touch was brilliant but goalkeeper was brave to clear his shot at the near post. Two minutes later Msuva shockingly wasted arguably the best chance to score. Samatta made a brilliant solo move and crossed the ball to Msuva but the Yanga forward fired wide.In the 59th minute, Kichuya was replaced by Farid Mussa. The introduction of Muzamiru and Farid helped Stars to up the tempo. Ajib went close with a clever chip in the 65th minute but keeper tipped it over the bar.He was then replaced by Salum Aboubakar in the 68th minute. A brilliant one two touches between Samatta and Salum Aboubakar in 77th minute nearly produced the second goal but the latter s shot was blocked by agile goalie.Then, Stars coach brought in Jonas Mkude for Himid Mao. With three mnutes to go, Samatta s set piece went straight into the back of the net for the second goal. Initially, the KRC Genk striker was fouled 20 yards out and he steeped up to tuck the ball at the near post.In the dying minutes of the game Msuva picked a knock and was replaced by Said Ndemla. Taifa Stars will take on Burundi in another international friendly match to be held at the same venue on Tuesday.