The Programme Coordinator of the Property and Business Formalization Programme (MKURABITA), Ms Seraphia Mgembe, observed this when the Parliamentary Committee on Administration and Local Government Affairs inspected projects under their watch. Land is among the most valuable assets if it s well managed and used wisely you should closely monitor your land by formalizing your farms to obtain customary title deeds, said Ms Mgembe.She observed that through the customary deeds the rural communities could secure loans among other benefits to improve their business capitals and in turn increase their incomes and the economy at large.The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Venance Mwamoto, who is also Kilolo Member of Parliament (CCM) urged the rural communities to formalize titles to their farms for future benefits. This land that you own today would perish if it s not well maintained . and your future generations will end up with nothing it s wise that you venture into making it formal, Mr Mwamoto stressed.However, he urged farmers to invest in value addition of their produce to ensure better shelf-life and work to improve their market margins. It s sad that Njombe is among the largest producers of avocado yet the fruits have to be exported to Nairobi for processing and then imported back into this country and sold (in the form of) juice. As a country we need to come up with an immediate solu tion to this problem, he noted.A beneficiary of the programme, Andrea Msigwa, thanked the government for availing this programme and the benefits it has accorded them. Msigwa said he started off with a small capital and, on obtaining his title deed through the programme, he is now able to get a loan of up to 400m/-. I am engaged in tree harvesting and I also run a chicken business which enables me to buy chicken from various places and distribute them in large quantity, pointed out Msigwa.He cited heavy bank interest rates as among challenges facing the small business people who are an outcome of such government programmes. We request the banks to reduce the interest on these loans for we re still growing in our businesses so most of the profit is spent on loan repayments, paying wages and other commitments, he said.Njombe District Executive Director (DED), Ms Iluminata Mwenda, said some 1,003 properties have been surveyed in five streets between 2009 and 2010. The residents contributed in the formalization process a total of 62m/- which resulted into preparation of 650 titles and already about 602 have been issued to the owners, observed Ms Mwenda.