Money lenders demand high interest rates for MSMEs to obtain capital. This makes the riddle of starting and managing a small business to be more difficult.However, despite all these stumbling blocks MSMEs need to borrow money to run their businesses. MSMEs borrow money from financial institutions to do the following:To start a business To obtain working capital to meet business needs specifically to increase the businesses work force or increase inventory To expand into new markets the entrepreneur may want to borrow in order to enter new energy markets.To improve cash flow of the enterprise To build a credit history or relationship with a financial Institution- an entrepreneur may not have borrowed before so taking out a loan can help in developing a good repayment history and can help the entrepreneur obtain financing in the future.Considerations for borrowing An entrepreneur should plan carefully before deciding to borrow money for either starting up a business or for business expansion. Entrepreneurs are required to make informed borrowing choices, which should be based on the business performance.Prior to borrowing entrepreneurs should carefully consider the following:1. A thorough knowledge of the business - this includes analysis of the business, seasonality of the business (identification of peak seasons, slow seasons, and busi ness cycles among others). Knowing the business very well helps the entrepreneur to plan the loan repayments around some of the factors mentioned.2. A well laid out business plan will allow entrepreneurs to forecast on their cash requirements, enabling them to determine business needs as well as identifying the correct timing for finances. This will give them extra time to explore all possible borrowing sources and negotiate the most favorable terms.3. Knowledge of business competitors: This information is important because it helps the entrepreneur access whether the timing of borrowing will be affected by activities conducted by the competition. An entrepreneur may borrow without studying the competition only to find that he/ she cannot make more sales as a result of activities conducted by the competition.4. Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats (SWOT) analysis of the entrepreneur as well as the enterprise. An entrepreneur needs to conduct a SWOT analysis to be able to maximize both personal and business strengths, minimize weaknesses, take advantage of opportunities as well as have contingency plans to take care of threats. Borrowing should not be done when the business weaknesses and threats outweigh business opportunities.5. Business Profile A business profile defines the business in detail. For start- ups, the business profile provides a justification why the entrepreneur wants to start the particular business as well as sources of startup capital. For expanding businesses the profile highlights when the business was started, how it has grown over time and helps to forecast where it is heading. This is very critical in helping the entrepreneur to make borrowing decisions.6. Purpose of the loan When an entrepreneur is planning to borrow money they should provide a well written statement showing the purpose of the loan, what it will be used for, how the loan will contribute to increased sales and profitability.7. Accurate financial records - these are proof of how an enterprise is performing. This information is used to evaluate whether the enterprise has capacity to repay the loan. Capacity of the enterprise can only be accessed if proper records are maintained describing how much money the business is generating against business expenditure.8. Cash flow projection a cash flow shows money into the business and out of the business on a day-to-day basis.9. Collateral - this refers to the security an entrepreneur is willing to give a financial institution to secure a loan. Collateral can include business and personal property such as inventory, equipment, and accounts receivable or real estate, stocks, bonds, etc.10. A repayment plan that shows how and when an entrepreneur will pay back the loan. As a contingency, an entrepreneur might outline a plan of action on how they will pay off the loan if profits alone aren t enough.11. Supporting documentation - these consist of documents that verify the information for a loan request - for instance, a lease, certificate of incorporation, partnership documents and letters of reference, contracts, invoices or vendor quotes.Costs related to borrowing MSMEs who are willing to borrow need to understand all the costs related to bor rowing. Some financial institutions do not disclose borrowing costs unless asked to do so by the entrepreneur.It is important for entrepreneurs to understand costs in order to compare what financial institutions are offering the best borrowing rates for them to make informed choices.The following section presents a number of costs that an entrepreneur needs to consider before deciding to take a loan.a) Interest rates. Interest rate is the charge for using the borrowed money and is expressed as an annual percentage of the principle. This fee is added to the amount of the loan. An entrepreneur should seek the following information with regard to interest rates: The amount of interest charged. The entrepreneur should do a research to several institutions. How do different financial institutions calculate the interest rate? What is the default rate of interest and is it competitive? Is the interest rate coupled with all fees, competitive with other available loans? Is the interest rate fixed or variable? Fixed interest rate means that the interest will remain at a per- determined rate for the entire term of the loan while variable interest rate means that the interest rate will move up or down based on the changes of the interest rate index (base lending rate).b) Payment Terms. Payment terms refer to the duration an MSME is given by a financial institution to pay the loan. What happens if an entrepreneur pays before the stipulated end date? What penalties are charged if the loan is not paid timely? Some financial institutions charge entrepreneurs for late and delayed payments therefore it is important that an entrepreneur understands how much the lender will charge for late payments.An entrepreneur should seek the following information from a financial institution: What are the monthly or other periodic payment obligations? When is the final principal payment due? Is there a right to extend the due date of the loan?c) Fees and charges. Fees are different from interest rates because they are charges incurred in loan processing and differ from one financial institution to another.Some common types of fees includes: loan underwriting fees, loan application fees, loan disbursements fees, loan insurance fees, legal costs, collateral valuation costs, due diligence costs, expenses of arranging the loan among others. Find out the following: Are there any loan fees, commitment fees, placement fees? Are they payable upfront? Are there any on-going fees or charges during the life of the loan? Let us end here for today, next week we will discuss about tactics of negotiating for a loan. 