Opening a one-day Mbeya Investment Forum famously known as ‘Green City Investment Forum,’ in the city on Wednesday, he said the the region has established investment desks to help local and foreign investors wishing to invest in the region. “It isn’t good when an investor comes and doesn’t know where to begin from. We have started with investment desks and they will spread to all districts,” he said. He said the region was well prepared to receive and assist investors who will be interested to invest in different sectors including manufacturing industries which will add value to agriculture, livestock and poultry subsectors. He said the region is also an attractive investment destination for hotels and lodges to cater for tourism and rapidly expanding activities in various sectors. He said they have already done evaluation in 12 industries in the region and found seven of them are still working. Meanwhile, he said a contractor has been selected to install night lights at Songwe International Airport (SIA) in Songwe region so as to enable landing and takeoff of aircraft for 24-hour a day. He said already the Spanish contractor has been selected to conduct the installation activities before the end of this year. According to him, once installed the airport would witness an increased number of local and international flights. Songwe Airport handles international and local airlines, cargo air traffic and chartered commercial flights. That will be another opportunity for investors to construct the storage facility at the airport to keep fruits, vegetables, fresh fish and flowers before they are exported abroad, he said. Mbeya is a city in southwest Tanzania which sits at the base of soaring Loleza Peak, between the Mbeya and Poroto mountain ranges. On the town’s outskirts is Lake Ngozi, a huge crater lake surrounded by dense forest rich in birdlife. Kitulo Plateau National Park, southeast of the city, is known for its colourful wild flowers. Farther south is Matema Beach, a resort town on the shores of the vast, fish-filled Lake Nyasa. The economy of Mbeya is based on agriculture, livestock keeping, mining, natural resources, manufacturing, commercial activities and employment in the public and private sectors. Agriculture contributes most of the Region’s cash income mainly from maize, sorghum, finger millet, cassava, beans, groundnuts, cowpeas, rice, cotton, tobacco, onion, sorghum and pigeon peas’ production.