Head of National Youth Football Development, Kim Poulsen believes that his team is progressing well in their preparations for the finals that Tanzania will play host for the first time. Poulsen is pleased with the team, which completed its three-week camp at the Karume Memorial Stadium in Dar es Salaam on Monday and succeeded to produce 38 competitive young football stars. “The full integration of our youth team setup has started to reap benefits basing on the skills and cream obtained from the selected players,” he told members of media at Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) headquarters in Dar es Salaam yesterday. Poulsen seized the opportunity to inform the public about how the team is shaping up for the upcoming AYC finals. The Dane tactician remained optimistic that in a few years to come, Tanzania will have the best competitive senior national team ‘Taifa Stars’. “I must say I am very pleased with the selected crop of young and talented boys who trained extensively for three weeks. It was not easy job to come up with the best from the rest basing on the level of competition they displayed throughout the camping period. But at last, we have finally got the required squad which has good balance of goalkeepers, defenders, midfielders and strikers,” Poulsen said. “The success of every national team depends on the level of investment in young talent as they are the ones who will be actively involved to take over from their brothers when they reach the end of a cycle,” he said. Serengeti Boys has automatically qualified into the lucrative competition as a host. The fact that we are hosting the tournament gives us an added advantage to stand tall and bring the country proud. “The most important thing here is to play as many international friendly games as possible with tough opponents mainly from West Africa like Nigeria, Senegal and Cameroon in order for the boys to get used with difficult teams. I believe that the current Serengeti Boys will be even much better, judging on the level of competency by the selected players,” Poulsen insisted. The former Taifa Stars Head Coach recommended that the selected squad must engage in regular camps and regular games for the players to quickly understand each other within the shortest period. He said the former Serengeti Boys played 25 friendly games en route to AYC finals in Gabon, hence the current team needs also to play as many friendly encounters as possible. Commenting on the progress of ex-Serengeti Boys team, which has now joined the family of U-20 national team commonly known as Ngorongoro Heroes, Poulsen said next month, the team will move into a three-week camp to prepare for the 2019 U-20 AFCON qualifiers. The qualification matches are due to begin next year. “The boys (U-20) have gained lots of international experience and I believe that Ngorongoro Heroes will perform well,” Poulsen said. In his words, TFF Media and Communications Officer, Alfred Lucas said the federation is doing everything possible to make sure that Tanzania hosts the remarkable AYC finals. Serengeti Boys were seconds away from securing a ticket to the finals of 2017 AYC in Gabon, but DRC Congo netted an all important stoppage time to derail the country troops, who bowed down 1-0 after normal period of play.