A win for ice cream makers will see them post seven points to leapfrog leaders Mtibwa Sugar and second placed Simba, who have six and four points respectively. Both Simba and Mtibwa Sugar will be on the sideline today.The Kagame Cup champions fought gallantly to hold free scoring Simba at the same venue last Saturday and Aristica Cioaba charges are raring to go for a win against Kagera Sugar in the match to kick off at 7 pm.Striker, Mbaraka Yusuph will also be at the centre stage, facing his former employer for the first time, since he controversially left the Kagera lads and joined Azam FC during the last transfer window. Azam will enter the venue determined to maintain their clean sheet record.They have not conceded a goal since the league kicked off in August 26th, this year, winning 1-0 against Ndanda and a barren draw against Simba last weekend. However, it will not be an easy task for Azam against Kagera Sugar, as the Bukoba lads will certainly be looking for their first league win this season.The Mecky Mexime charges have had a turbulent start to the season, losing 1-0 at home to Mbao FC in the opening match of the season, before they survived early minute scare to force a 1-1 draw with Ruvu Shooting at Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba last weekend.Ruvu Shooting, who suffered a humiliating 7-0 loss in the premiership opener, fought bravery to defend the slim lead before hosts Kagera Sugar equalised in late minutes of the second half. This will be the 19th league clash between Azam and Kagera Sugar.In the past 18 meetings, Azam won nine times, five defeats and four draws. Last season, Kagera Sugar beat Azam 2-1 at the Chamazi Complex in the second round of the league, while in the first round encounter between the two sides, the match ended in a 1-1 draw at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba.Going into the match, Kagera Sugar will be without defender, Mohammed Fakhi and Jaffar Kibaya as well as skipper, George Kavilla, who are nursing injuries. Mexime has predicted for a tough encounter but said they are well prepared for the battle. The league is tough and Azam is a difficult side to face they have good players but we have also prepared well for the match, he said. At the end of last weekend, Mtibwa Sugar enjoyed the driver s seat with six points following their 1-0 win over Mwadui at Manungu grounds in Turiani, Morogoro.Holders Young Africans who defeated debutants Njombe Mji 1-0 now tie with their Dar es Salaam rivals Simba and Azam on four-point on the log, but superior goal advantage heightens Simba above the rivals at the standings.League debutants, Singida United sealed their first three points after beating Mbao FC 2-1 in a thrilling encounter held on Saturday at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma. Elsewhere, Mbeya City suffered a 1-0 defeat to Ndanda FC in a thrilling encounter at Sokoine stadium in Mbeya.