This was said by Principal State Attorney Vitalis Peter, for the prosecution, at the Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam yesterday, when the case came for mention. Under such circumstances, the prosecution requested Senior Resident Magistrate Victoria Nongwa to adjourn the trial for another mention date while waiting the directives of the DPP on how to go about the matter. The magistrate granted the prosecution’s request and adjourned the trial to October 4th this year, for mention. Lawyers say that three things could happen when the prosecution’s case file is taken to the DPP. He may draw new charges for prosecution of accused persons depending on the evidence presented to him. Furthermore, the DPP could return the case file to the investigative machinery with directives of carrying out further investigations on some aspects or enter nolle prosequi certificate in favour of the accused persons if the evidence brought before him was insufficient to mount their prosecution. Nolle prosequi is a legal term or phrase meaning “be unwilling to pursue”, a phrase amounting to “do not prosecute” used in many common law criminal prosecution contexts to describe a prosecutor’s decision to voluntarily discontinue criminal charges either before trial or verdict. In the trial, it is alleged that the accused persons forged transfer of funds report form on March 15th last year, in the city. With intent to defraud or deceit, the accused persons allegedly purported to show that Simba SC was repaying a loan of the said 300,000 US dollars to Aveva, while it was not true. The prosecution alleges further that on the same day at CRDB Bank PLC, Azikiwe Branch in Ilala District, knowingly and fraudulently, Aveva uttered the said form to the bank, purporting that the club was repaying the said amount as loan to him. It is alleged that between March 15 and July 29, 2016, in Dar es Salaam, jointly and together, the two club leaders conspired to commit the offence of money laundering by acquiring the said 300,000 US dollars while they knew that the money was proceeds of a predicate offence of forgery. The court has been told further that on March 15, 2016, at Barclays Bank Tanzania Limited at Mikocheni Branch in Kinondoni District, Aveva acquired the said money from the Bank while at the time of such acquisition he knew the money was proceeds of offence of forgery. On the same day and the bank, Nyange aided and abated Aveva to acquire the money from the bank, while knowing that the said money was proceeds of a crime of forgery of the transfer of funds report form.