According to the data released recently, exports in the country has increased to 608.20m/-US dollar in May from 583.50m/-US dollar in April of 2017. Also exports in the country averaged 550.21m/-US dollar from 2006 until 2017, reaching an all time high of 956.50m/- US dollar in December, 2015 and a record low of 228.70m/- US dollar in March, 2006.Tanzania major exports are agricultural commodities with tobacco, coffee, cotton, cashew-nuts, tea and cloves being the most important. Other exports include gold and manufactured goods. Tanzania main exports partners are India, Japan, China, United Arab Emirates, Netherlands and Germany.With these statistics, it is obvious Tanzania has not fully harnessed the opportunities offered by the EAC market. Imports in Tanzania have increased to 741m/-US dollar in May from 672m/ US dollar in April, 2017.The imports in the country averaged 833.75m/- US dollar from 2006 until 2017. However, as the government strives to boost industrial production and increase exports, it is obvious that the country needs to work hard to face challenges in the manufacturing sector.A recent study shows that Kenya remain the most exporting country in East Africa. A study released by the Kenya Association of Manufacturers last month stated that Africa continues to be Kenya s leading export destination accounting for 40.6 per cent of our exports, with the EAC community taking up 21.1 per cent of total exports in 2016.This means Kenya exports to the EAC accounted for slightly more than half of the total exports in Africa. However, the total export earnings last year decreased by 4.0 per cent and this could be explained by a decrease to exports in Uganda and Rwanda by 9.3 and 2.5 per cent respectively.In 2015, Kenya exported 5.25bn/ US dollar and imported 17.6bn/- US dollar, resulting in a negative trade balance of 12.3bn/-US dollar. The report indicate that in the past five years, other East African countries have been working hard to establish, revive and strengthen industries and develop economy.The study indicated that for Kenya to maintain its status as a main exporter in East Africa region, there is an urgent to start channeling focus towards diversifying and growing exports in order to secure markets.According to the African Development Bank (AfDB) intra African trade has decreased from 18 percent in 2000 to 15percent in 2015. Whilst in markets like the EU, most member states have two or three of their regional partners who account for over 50 percent of their intra EU exports.According to the report, the East African countries have not fully utilized the business opportunities in the region. It states that entry of cheap imports into the region has also eroded the competitiveness of products in the region, taking up a large share of the markets.The report suggested that there is need to tighten existing ties within EAC and consequently, bank on shared identities and interests to negotiate better market access for the priority products under the EAC industrialisation policy.A recent trade disruption between Kenya and Tanzania, which resulted in huge losses for the two countries, is a vivid example on how East African countries fail to utilize available business opportunities as required.Tanzania is the number 6 export market for Kenyan products and also one of the fastest growing economies in the EAC. Last week, Kenya and Tanzania resolved to address the concerns raised and to constantly engage in regular bilateral meetings with a view to ease the flow of goods and services across our borders.On other East African countries, Uganda targets to become a middle status income country with a projected export performance of more than 8bn/-US dollar by 2020. Currently, Uganda imports more than it exports, creating a negative trade balance.Uganda s total merchandise exports were worth 2.73bn/- US dollar in 2015 while merchandise imports into Uganda reached 6.065bn/ US dollar in 2015. Trade deficit reached 3.3bn/-US dollar in 2015.The key manufactured goods that were exported in the region include base Metals and Products, cement, Edible Fats and Oils, Sugar, Plastic Products and soap.