The deviant members of society normally lose their respect, to the extent of being booed by children or chased away from respectable and important events. It is unfortunate that with colonisation and the so called modernisation, some deviant behaviours slowly crept into our culture, something that was quickly termed cultural diversity and dynamism. As if that was not enough, the wave of and coming in of human rights advocacy groups, marked a watershed in the history of African people, Tanzanians included. Globalisation and modernisation are equally to blame for the acceptance of deviant behaviours in some countries. And to make matters worse, some developing partners put acceptance of certain deviant behaviours as a condition for getting financial aid. Though prostitution is termed the oldest profession, it has never easily been accepted in our most African countries. Though some parts of the world legalise it, it remains banned in many countries that are still holding onto their values and cultural norms. In Tanzania, it is banned and those doing it are simply breaking the law. Another thorn in the flesh is homosexuality. Africa has come up in arms with the social embarrassment. Though some developed countries have legalised it, it remains illegal in most African nations. And the government has come out guns blazing vowing to tackle the social rot by warning operators of brothels, commercial sex workers and homosexuals that an operation through the police force was on cards to weed out those who engage in habits that are against the ethics and culture of the country. The Deputy Minister for Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children, Dr Khamis Kigwangala, said for homosexuals, the law is clear that they can face up to 30 years in prison. He also warned some NGOs that are secretly supporting such behaviours to end it forthwith. The government should leave no stone unturned in dealing with this issue and make sure that those who are found guilty face the music. We can’t allow the country to adopt practices that are against the nature and stern measures should be put in place to curb such practices. Let’s all join hands, play our part to make sure that such practices are eradicated from the society. It is our duty to safeguard our cultural values and norms for the future generations.