Matched to other books I have been privileged to review, from the start, the preface in this book found in (pg. viii-ix) is an excellent roadmap that places Tanzania at the right place in this critical time in history.The preface interpretations in my opinion is archetypal, especially where it clearly states we must seize control of our economy and destiny and how to achieve that by exhibiting the way by saying courage leadership is needed, self confidence, ingenuity, hard work and above all economic patriotism.Those who appreciate and understand President Dr John Pombe Magufuli s views and judgement, will realize his tone when he frequently says, I have dedicated my Presidency to save Tanzanians. Reviewing a book of this class, exceptionally when forwarded by the Head of State isn t an easy task. Nevertheless, my audacity and bravery to present my views and few words on this book, launched last week on 29th August 2017 and flagged by Finance and Planning Minister, Dr Philip Mpango, are based on these words: I call upon all Tanzanians and all those who support our ambition of becoming a modern industrialised nation to read this book, take part in this debate, and contribute their own ideas. Grounded on such consent, I noticed that this book contains a collection of diverse eleven chapters, spanning from issues on policy, capacity building, prioritisation, skill issues, resource mobilisation options, strategies and exit mechanisms.Interpreting the authors intellect, their aim was perhaps one that will cement foundation to the journey as the country s position to take off.Views articulated in these chapters cover well substances that matter for this nation, soundly reiterated in chapter two (pg.6) focusing on background of industrial policy and the role of government that has positioned Tanzania in its current locus. 2016-2156 goal Tanzania aims to achieve in industrialisation Although each of the chapters signifies an important contribution to our understanding of the things we need to focus to attain desired middle income by 2025, let me single out few for observations. Chapter five has maps industry prioritisation for Tanzania beaming 2016- 2056 timeframe.Whilst the contributors have provided a bouquet of kind of industries, readers would have benefited more if the discussion would have furthermore placed, in the context the kind of drivers that will prompt appropriate matching amendments.Cited sectors are growth-related and their execution will no doubt propel Tanzania s growth. Nonetheless, for this to happen the contributors should have taken on board in this chapter, on-going private sector whistling on issues such as conflicting and duplicative policies and laws mainly related to taxes, levies, licences and other charges that on a daily basis affect private sector operation.Proposals on how regulatory hurdles could be removed would have added value to this chapter, else as it is, will stay to be an academic work. The hardback is an admirable blueprint when it discusses skill issues conferred in chapter six.I too agree with contributors that to develop you need educated labour force, but more importantly with necessary skills ready to tackle the contemporary technology infrastructure.Chapter eight of the book (pg. 91-107) is thought-provoking portion of the book that fascinated my attentiveness. Contrasting many previous undertakings, the contributors have accentuated how resource mobilization is significant and I do agree on a strategy discussed for better resource mobilization.From the discussion in that chapter, take home point is that without proper funding, list of industries presented in chapter six (pg. 41-55)will not sustainably been executed. But for this to happen, the contributors would have been fair to the readers by proposing answers to these questions as they concluded the chapter.What policies must Tanzania adopt? Does Tanzania have the right, well-capitalised and trusted and mandated financial institution(s) that after fifty years of independence can leverage or on behalf of the government raise the necessary capital locally and internationally?Chapter eleven (pg. 136- 158)closes by underlining issues linked to industrial policy instruments imperatives that need to be taken into account in order to accelerate industrial development and structural mind set change in Tanzania. Thoughts presented are well articulated.Hence, I do concur with the contributors because sound industrial policy institutions are key policy option to promote the reallocation of human, physical and financial resources to high value added sectors of the economy.Contemplating the book from front page to the back page, with inscribed Julius K Nyerere words, 1995, this book has certainly given readers and Tanzanians, what really matters and what really will work if as a country want to industrialise. Big up contributors!