The League, at the end of the fourth round, has seen 60 goals in 32 encounters with Simba’s 7-0 win giving the opening round a hefty 18 goals, one more than 17 goals netted in the fourth round. Out of 17 goals, 11 goals were netted in the Lake Zone regions starting with four goals netted in Mbao-Simba’s 2-2 draw, another four in Tanzania Prisons’ 3-1 win over Mwadui, while three others came in Stand United 2-1 victory over Mbeya City. One goal was scored when Singida United beat Kagera Sugar 1-0, two were netted in Mtibwa Sugar’s 1-1 draw with Ruvu Shooting. Azam scored one goal in their win over Lipuli, Young Africans beat Ndanda 1-0 and Njombe Mji scored once in their Majimaji rout. The worst in marksmanship or the best in defending came in the third round where 11 goals were netted in eight matches. The situation was almost similar to the second round of the league when 13 goals were scored. It looked Simba’s barren draw with Azam somehow contributed to lower score. Most notable results in round three was Simba’s comeback with a 3-0 victory over Mwadui at the Uhuru Stadium, Dar es Salaam. But three matches also finished in draws in the round. In terms of individual teams with highest scores, Simba top the list with twelve goals from four meetings, seconded by Tanzania Prisons who have netted seven goals while Singida United are third having hit behind the net six times. Both Mtibwa Sugar and Mbao FC have scored five goals each to occupy fourth position. Yanga are on the fifth slot with 4 goals while Azam, Mbeya City, Majimaji and Mwadui netted three goals each to sit on sixth place. Lipuli FC, Stand United and Ruvu Shooting have hit behind the net twice to remain on seventh spot, as Kagera Sugar, Njombe Mji and Ndanda FC are glued at the base with a single goal. Meanwhile, Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) has become the new title sponsor of the Premier League sponsorship to the tune of 144,000 US dollars, equivalent to 325m/-. The new deal was signed in Dar es Salaam yesterday and was witnessed by the bank officials and Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) President Wallace Karia, who put pen to paper on the deal that takes over from mobile phone company Vodacom Tanzania Speaking after the signing occasion, TFF President Karia thanked the company for the partnership as Tanzania top flight league title sponsors, saying it will help bridge a huge gap in their budget for the league. “We are proud of KCB for coming in to be part of the league’s success. The sponsorship goes a long way in helping our clubs prepare well, hence making the league competitive and exciting,” Karia said. The deal means Tanzania Premier League clubs will get around 20m/- each.