The Zone showered football fans with 11 goals in three games held in Mwanza, Mwadui and Shinyanga. It was opened with a four-goal thriller at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza where Mbao FC forced Simba to a 2-2 draw before Tanzania Prisons-Mwadui match adding the second four-goal thriller at Mwadui complex on Saturday. Added with three goals netted at CCM Kambarage Stadium yesterday when hosts, Stand United beat Mbeya City 2-1, the zone had seen 11 total goals recorded this week in the lake Zone. Elsewhere, Singida United were 1-0 winners over Kagera Sugar as they slowly but keenly climb up the stairs of the league table while Ruvu Shooting stopped Mtibwa Sugar’s three match back-to-back winning streak by holding them to a 1-1 draw at Mlandizi ground. However, the best from this week’s kick off are Singida United who have climbed to the second position after notching 9 points. The newly promoted team climbed up after beating Kagera 1-0 at Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma yesterday. The 1-1 draw with Ruvu Shooting reduced the speed of Mtibwa Sugar and forced to add only a point, but they still claim the driver’s seat with 10 points. But it was not the case at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam where only one goal was scored in Young Africans slim win over Ndanda FC. The team’s Assistant Coach, Shadrack Nsajigwa said it was enough as it provided them vital points. Nsajigwa insisted what needed most are three points and winning by a big margin can not be guaranteed as all teams are well prepared for this season’s kick off. He said the lone goal gave his team eight points. He said this during the post-match interview as his side registered second win of the season thanks to Ibrahim Ajib’s magic first segment goal that sparked the venue on fire. “In the first half, we created countless scoring opportunities which could have enabled us to net more goals but in the end, we only got a single goal. The last half was a bit hard as our opponents (Ndanda) came a bit stronger trying to equalise, fortunately, we never let them do so.” Nsajigwa said. George Lwandamina’s right hand man further said unlike in previous matches played by the Jangwani based giants, now they are able to create lots of scoring chances hence assured fans that in the upcoming games, they will be scoring as many goals as possible. However, holders Yanga will have to do away without their Congolese import midfielder Papy Tshishimbi as he accumulated his third yellow card of the season hence disqualifying him from their next fixture against Mtibwa Sugar at Uhuru Stadium on October. In his words, Ndanda FC Head Coach Malale Hamsini lauded his charges for producing a fierce fighting spirit despite bowing down in the end. “We have lost today (Saturday) but this will make us stronger in the approaching league matches. Our team is still new as players are yet to understand well each other,” said Hamsini. It was the second defeat of the season for Mtwara based side after suffering the same score line upset in the hands of Azam FC during their opening match of the season at Azam Complex, Dar es Salaam. Yanga’s victory in one way or the other helped to ease pressure on Zambian mentor George Lwandamina who initially had led his troops to a single win with two draws a situation that raised eyebrows among the club’s supporters. Debutants Njombe Mji FC registered their first win of the league to end three match winless run as they smashed Majimaji 1-0 in Songea to move from the tail of the log to the eleventh position.