Tanzania will be represented by three teams, alongside ABC who finished runners up in the regional basketball league last season. DB Lioness is the only women team involved in the Zone 5 mission while Savio and ABC are men’s teams. Savio and ABC won tickets to represent Tanzania in the zonal level championship after taking two top positions in the last season’s National Basketball League (NBL). DB Lioness won a ticket as the Ladies category winners while Jeshi Stars who finished runners up, are yet to confirm participation until late yesterday. Speaking at Don Bosco Youth Centre in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairman of Savio and DB Lioness teams, Abdulkadry Issa Mntambo said 28 players and four officials will be involved in the trip. “Both teams have trained intensively for the Kampala mission targeting to come back home victorious,” he said. Players have been training physically and tactically hard for couple of months at Don Dosco Youth centre. They are now ripe for a tough mission,” said Abdulkadri. Adding, Abdulkadri said the players traveling to Kampala are those who participated in the Dar es Salaam Regional Basketball (RBA) which climaxed in the city last Saturday. He named some of the notable players picked for Kampala tour include the RBA best players, Brian Mramba, Junior Kabeya, Amin Mkosa, George Tarimo, Mohamed Yusuf and Ally Mnyamani. Others are Romanus Anania, Sylvian Yunzu and Amin Mntambo. DB Lioness will parade Amina Ahmed, Rehema Silombi, Zakia Kondo, Olyne Londo and Justin Bablia . ABC said they will use all players who enabled Tanzania to win EAC Military Games in Burundi. The team’s coach Alfred Ngalalija said the EAC Military Games gave his players all what they needed in terms of skills and experience. 15 teams including Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Somalia, Ethiopia, Rwanda, Burundi, and South Sudan will be contending for the tournament’s top titles. City Oilers from Uganda are the defending champions after defeating Kenya Ulinzi in the finals held in Dar es Salaam last year.