Ibrahim Ajib netted the solitary goal midway in the first half to give Yanga their second Mainland Premier League victory of the season. Yanga are fourth on the log on eight points same as second placed Simba and Tanzania Prisons, but are separated on goal difference. The victory eased pressure on Zambian Head Coach, George Lwandamina, who had initially led his charges to just a single victory from three matches. Yanga started the game in a spectacular fashion, taking control of the midfield where, Zimbabwean Thaban Kamusoko returned from injury to partner Congolese, Pappy Kabamba Tshishimbi and Raphael Daudi. Just a minute from the kick off, striker Aubrey Chirwa raced to a through ball from the middle of the pack but his final shot was blocked to a fruitless corner kick. In the 12th minute, Ajib latched onto a clever pass from Daudi and tested the goalkeeper, Jeremia Kisubi but his shot failed to hit the target. Five minutes later, central defender, Kelvin Yondani, made a rare stride upfront and exchanged quick passes with Chirwa, but failed to make the most from a chance created. Then in the 20th minute, Rajab Zahir brilliantly tackled Kamusoko before the midfielder pulled a trigger as Yanga continued to look a side more likely to score, while the visitors were committing men at the back. After pushing hard, Yanga were rewarded in the 34th minute, when Ajib superbly connected with a semi bicycle kick at the near post, a well measured cross from Yondani. Yanga maintained pressure, searching for more goals and Daudi should have doubled the lead moments later when he ran clear, but his powerful shot skidded over few inches over the bar. Applying defensive tactics, Ndanda made some frightening counter attacks and Jacob Massawe nearly succeeded to score when he ran clear, but goalkeeper Youthe Rostand made the save. At resumption, Yanga looked more lethal than the visitors as they wanted to score more goals, hence compelling Ndanda to make adjustment to their squad as Ally Muhamed paved way for Hamid Waziri. It was a tactical switch for Coach Malale Hamsini as he wanted to cancel the lead. Once again the partnership of Kamusoko, Tshishimbi and Raphael Daudi was a thorn in fresh as they easily controlled the engine department forcing the away team to use flanks. Kamusoko fierce shot in the 52nd minute was superbly parried off by the keeper and a minute later, Tshishimbi was allowed space and time to connect with a powerful header a corner kick that hit the bar as Yanga piled more pressure. In 58 minute, the guest team introduced Kelvin Friday as Jabir Azizi was rested, but that either could not stop Yanga from launching attacks at their opponent’s territory. Match winner, Ajib was substituted mid way into the last chapter and his position was taken by Geoffrey Mwashiuya as Lwandmina opted to strengthen the attacking options and pace. The Jangwani based side keeper Rostand was practically not dangerously tested in the last segment as compared to his counterpart. Yanga suffered a blow as their dependable defensive midfielder Tshishimbi will miss their next game against Mtibwa Sugar after being awarded a yellow card by referee Jonesia Rukyaa, for a foul play. It was the third yellow card for the Congolese in the ongoing league.