Midfielder Thaban Kamusoko s second half strike earned Yanga the important victory but the Jangwani Street side will need to dig deep in their return leg away, to defend their lead and win a place into the group stage of the continental second tier club championship.Coming fresh from last week s 1-0 victory over Azam FC in the domestic league, Yanga needed nothing but a convincing win in the 2nd 1/16th round first leg at home to be in a better situation in their quest to reach the group stage. With one nil cushion, it will be a tough mission a week later in Algiers, although any draw will earn Yanga a place into the group stage.However, if Yanga manage to score an away goal, it will be a monumental task for Algerians. In the game, Yanga lacked strategy and did not look sharp especially in the first half. They were wasteful and slowed down movements especially after cutting inside the final third of their opponents.MC Alger started strongly and just ten minutes into the game, goalkeeper Deogratius Munishi was forced to make a point blank save to deny Goveri Kaled.The striker s powerful shot almost caught the keeper off guard. Then, Yanga made a rare stride upfront in the 14th minute, with Kamusoko driving past defender but failed to make the most from the chance.Another chance for Yanga came in the 18th minute when winger, Simon Msuva and Kamusoko made quick inter change of passes and the former outpaced defenders but they finally got into each other s way and lost possession in a very good position.Two minutes later, Mebarakou Zidane cut down the right side, leaving Yanga defender Haji Mwinyi flat footed, but he fluffed with a chance to put the visitors ahead. Custodian Munishi was again called off his line to stop Chrifei Hichem s deep cross inside the area.Yanga came back into the picture and in the 25th minute, creative midfielder, Haruna Niyonzima, released Msuva but the winger blasted his shot wide. Two minutes later, Niyonzima was again at the centre of it, this time side stepping past his marker and set up Msuva, who also wasted no time to release Kamusoko.The Zimbabwean fizzled shot was bravely turned over the bar by goalkeeper, Chaouch Faruzi to a corner kick. MC Alger threatened in the 29th minute, when Kacem Mehdi poked the ball from sloppy defenders but goalie Munishi stood firm to stop his shot on target.From then on, the Algerians were slowing things down and Yanga struggled to step up the tempo. Zambian striker, Aubrey Chirwa, who was kept at bay in most part of the first half almost got a goal from nothing a minute before the interval but a defender stepped up to clear the danger. After the break, Yanga came back a much better side with much more pace.They took control of the midfield and kept possession. Hassan Kessy s good cross inside the box in the 50th minute found no Yanga player lurking in the area and defenders had an easy task to clear.Coach George Lwandamina called off Deus Kaseke and introduced recovering striker, Zimbabwean Donald Ngoma in the 55th minute and Yanga stepped up the gear.Immediately after the introduction, Ngoma almost caught defenders napping but was flagged offside. The goal came after an hour mark, when Niyonzima and Msuva exchanged passes and the latter set up Kamusoko, whose bullet shot beat the keeper.After conceding, the Algerians started pushing for an equaliser and in the 62nd minute Goveri Kaled s powerful shot came off defenders for a corner kick. Too few chances were created by both sides as Yanga introduced Emmanuel Martin for Niyonzima.Yanga are involved in the Confederation Cup because they were among round-of-32 casualties in the much richer, more prestigious CAF Champions League after being knocked out by Zambia s Zanaco FC last month. They are among 16 losers demoted to the Confederation Cup, whose 1.25 million US dollars first prize is half that of the Champions League.