The coach claims that some of his players lacked concentration, hence making the team play only 65 per cent of the actual standard. We are happy that we have won the game, but we understand that this is just the half of a tough encounter. We lost too many chances in the game, he said.Adding, he said the composure in the final third period was poor and resulted in that narrow victory. The Assistant coach went to claim that some players lacked concentration and the correct decisions to score. We are looking forward to a tough game away. We know that it will not be easy as our opponents will go all out, he added.He promised Yanga s fans and supporters that the technical bench will work hard to ensure they train well players and strengthen the teamwork so as to meet the desired 100 per cent.He said he was glad the injury problem was not so big as it was previously and hoped all players will be available in the return leg in Algiers next on Saturday.He also rued missed scoring chances his players committed claiming if all were converted, his team would have won by a big margin. Strikers were restless and hesitant whenever they reached the danger zone, something which needs psychological approach to overcome, said the assistant coach.Yanga netted the winner through a Zimbabwe-import, Thaban Kamusoko. It was the only goal that enabled Yanga beat MC Alger in their 2nd 1/16th round first leg clash on Saturday at the National Stadium in the city.Despite the tight defensive approach of the visiting Algerians, Kamusoko netted the winner for the hosts on the hour mark from an Obrey Chirwa assist. The return leg will be in Algiers next Saturday.The game was actionpacked with Yanga as the Tanzanians are nicknamed dominated possession and as well the better scoring opportunities but lack of composure in the final third left them with just one goal.It was an intense first half with Yanga creating no less than ten clear cut chances, which all went in vain. The host came close to scoring as early as the sixth minute but MC Alger goal-stopper, Chaouchi Fawzi used extra effort to save Mwinyi Haji s direct free-kick.Later attempts from Haruna Niyonz ima, Chirwa, Nadir Haroub and Kamusoko all went wide. The visitors, winners of the CAF Champions League in 1976, relied on the counter with Hadj Bougueche and Khaled Gourmi but all their efforts was nothing than a trial.In the second half, Yanga coach George Lwandamina introduced Donald Ngoma for Deus Kaseke in the 55th minute, and the change was what the Tanzanians were missing as few minutes later, Ngoma and Chirwa teamed up to square Kamusoko to score the match winner.Rachid Bouhenna, Hichem Nekkache, Sid Aouadj and captain Hachoud Abderrahmane test the host defence on a few occasions but goalkeeper Deogratias Munishi was up to the task on all occasions, as Yanga held on to victory.