According to the Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) Secretary General, Filbert Bayi said yesterday that everything was in place for the baton to be received in the country for a three-day tour.According to Bayi, the Queen s baton relay in Dar es Salaam will officially start tomorow covering various areas of the city, notably Mwalimu Nyerere bridge, the longest in the country and the UDART Gerezani Terminal, also one of the country s notable attractions.He added that on the same day, the baton will head to the National Stadium where dance music bands and traditional music ensembles will jointly entertain. Among the megastars expected to entertain there include African Stars Twanga Pepeta , Bongo Flava diva, Lady Jay Dee and Jitegemee Secondary School Choir.On Monday, the Queen s baton relay will head to the State House where President John Magufuli will officially receive it. Bayi said the arrival of the Queen s Baton will help promote the country and its various tourists attractions especially in Dar es Salaam and Arusha regions.Athletes who earned Tanzania medals in various Commonwealth Games are due to participate in the Queen s baton relay. The athletes include the Commonwealth Games 1,500m record holder, Filbert Bayi and the marathon legends Gidamis Shahanga and Samson Ramadhani. The medalists won medals in separate Club Games from 1970 to 2006 when Samson Ramadhani earned Tanzania its last gold medal in games held in Sydney, Australia.Bayi named the athletes who have confirmed as marathoners John Yuda, Simon Mrashani, Gidamis Shahanga, Francis Naali, Samson Ramadhani and Juma Ikangaa. Javelin thrower Zakayo Malekwa is the only field event athlete to take part in the relay. The list of boxers includes Hassan Matumla, Haji Ally Matumla and Willy Isangula.However, Geway Suja who won bronze medal in Kuala Lumpur Games and Claver Kamanya, who also won bronze in 400m in Club Games of Christchurch, News Zealand in 1974, are yet to confirm, according to Bayi.The Queen s Baton first arrived in the country in 1998 and was received at the State House by the then President Benjamin William Mkapa. The baton is scheduled to arrive in the country from Nairobi after completing its Kenyan round.The TOC Assistant Secretary, Suleiman Jabir has urged Dar es Salaam residents to come in number to participate in the relay. The Queen s Baton Relay, similar to the Olympic Torch Relay, is a relay around the world held prior to the beginning of the Commonwealth Games.The Baton carries a message from the Head of the Commonwealth, currently Queen Elizabeth II. The Relay traditionally begins at Buckingham Palace in London as part of the city s Commonwealth Day festivities.The Queen entrusts the baton to the first relay runner.At the Opening Ceremony of the Games, the final relay runner hands the baton back to the Queen or her representative, who reads the message aloud to officially open the Games.