With changes in economic and political fundaments in different part of the world, the viability of various investment options changes from one time to another.That being the case, you can t remain static but have to review your investment portfolio at regular interval. In the heady days of bull runs, we tend to make far more investment mistakes than in normal times.Sure, most of us make money when the markets are going up, but when the bullrun gets over, we all have stocks and funds which we should not have bought at the first place.It is an established piece of investing wisdom, that to make money over the long term, all you have to do is to make sure that you don t lose it.Or to put it in a different way, you don t have to do the right thing, as you have to simply avoid doing the wrong things. Makes it sound simple, doesn t it? After all, avoiding the wrong things must be easier than finding the right things to do, right?Actually, if one looks at the true investment stories of real investors, it turns out that avoiding mistakes is just as hard, if not harder, as doing the correct things.There was a time when banking stocks across the world were the darling of most investors, as nobody ever thought in their dreams that even a bank can fail or go bankrupt.But there are numerous instances where renowned banks [I do not want to name them here for obvious reasons] have gone bust. And now the changed perception is not all banking stocks are good but there are some good, bad, and better stocks depending on their individual performance.So if you have bought a banking stock 5 years back and the bank is not doing well, it makes perfect sense to dispose it off rather than just keeping it in your portfolio.Taking such steps is nothing but an example of realigning your investments. There was also a time when IT stocks knew only one path i.e. going up. And suddenly we were encountered by the dotcom bust.From then on the performance of many IT companies is not as exemplary as it used to be in the past. One of the reasons is stiff competition, so one need to rebalance his portfolio by selling those stocks which are not performing well and acquire stocks of those IT companies, which have relatively better prospects going forward.Another example could be of real estate stocks. This is the sector which at one or other time had remained on top in most countries and later on tables got turned the other way.So during boom time it makes sense to buy stocks of real estate companies and come out timely by booking profit before a slide appears in this sector, rather than holding them till the end with no use. On the other hand, if one s exposure to fixed income securities is very high, corresponding expected returns will be low.Thus realigning here would mean reducing the overall exposure of fixed income securities in favor of equity investments by buying quality stocks. Remember, investments are often made for a particular objective.Sometimes they outlive their usefulness. And this is where one needs to realign one s investments regularly. Most often an idea, good sometime back, becomes obsolete. Review to see if such investments still form a part of your portfolio.And if so, there is an urgent need to realign your portfolio, which in any way should become your regular habit. Cheers!!!