Established under the Petroleum Act of 2015, a fivemember board was inaugurated by the minister here yesterday. Prof Muhongo said for decades-long Tanzanians have raised concern on their position on natural gas and oil sector whilst the sector s contribution on the national development. We have strategically chosen you out of a huge number of applicants. It was your skill, experience and academic background that lead to your appointment, Prof Muhongo told the newly appointed board.Chaired by Dr Adelardus Kilangi, a law guru, the board will include an environment expert Engineer Ramadhani Suleiman, Financial expert Dr Josephat Lotto, former Tanzania Petroleum Development Corporation (TPDC) Boss Mr Yona Killagane and National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC) Executive Director Ms Beng I Issa. This is the only time you can demonstrate your expertise by helping the country, the outspoken Minister said. He however warned the board members not to fall into temptation of international oil marketing companies charging the government will put them under heavy surveillance. If we smell corruption, I can assure you my friend we will take you out immediately. There is no time to have unnecessary dinner with oil marketing companies your priority must be to serve the nation interest, he told the board.Prof Muhongo however urged the board to assist the government in legal and financial issues facing the sector ahead of a 30billion US dollar LNG plant to be built in Lindi. PURA Acting Director General Mr Charles Sangweni told the Minister the authority had already developed equipment and strategic plan with the help from the Energy and Water Regulatory Authority (EWURA). The Authority was supposed to have started operation since September 2015 when the law was signed by the President but some instruments including the board were not in place, he said.The Authority will now be responsible for monitoring and regulation of the upstream segment in Tanzania mainland. Most of the petroleum hydrocarbons discovered in Tanzania constitutes dry gas resources, located deep offshore.EWURA, on other part will be responsible for regulating processing, transportation and distribution. Ewura Director General Eng Felix Ngamlagosi said the authority was ready to offer all the needed support to PURA for the betterment of the country.