SAGCOT Chief Executive Officer, Geoffrey Kirenga told journalists that the rational way to develop a reliable home-grown industrial base in Tanzania was to create a welcoming investment environment in agriculture.He said Tanzanian future industries will depend on agricultural produce for growth and survival, adding that the only correct path to an industrial Tanzania was to increase productivity in agriculture. Mr. Kirenga said when Tanzania talks of industries, it must at the same time think of high-quality productive agriculture because to a large extent it is agriculture that will produce raw materials for Tanzanian industries. We must think of creating first-rate investment climate in agriculture; we must conserve and protect water sources and biodiversity; we must examine opportunities and challenges in agriculture, he said.In the southern regions, he said, the push is towards business farming by creating chain value in crops like tea, potatoes, tomatoes, dairy products and soya beans.Industries are in place, he said, but they lack enough agricultural raw materials to produce products for sale. He added that in business farming, the trick starts with the demand in the market, but a lot of people when they think of agriculture they think of producing crops on land. You must know what is in the market, the price and the accepted quality, time, needed amount and the way to reach the market. When you have answers for all these elements, then you turn to the farm for farming. Mr Kirenga said Tanzania s farming is devoid of productivity, giving the example of maize which is heavily produced in southern regions. He said farmers still harvest less than 1.5 tonnes a hectare. Today this is unacceptable, especially in areas with ample rain. He said that the Clinton Foundation trained farmers in Kilolo district, Iringa region, in the last two years harvested 8.5 tonnes of maize per hectare, adding that farmers who missed the training are still harvesting 1.5 tones. Acid in the soil is our biggest challenge.PH is in the region of 4 downwards. In a situation like this use of fertiliser is not rewarding because nutrients do not reach the roots, they are stuck in the soil on the way. SAGCOT Board of Directors Chairman Salum Shamte said SAGCOT has accumulated experience in the last five years it focused on the southern zone, adding that it was time to pay attention to western, northern, eastern and central zones and see the kind of opportunities the zones offer.He said the initiative plans to create corridors in other zones just like in the southern zone but at the moment Sagcot lacks resources.