Residents of Mwanza and other neighbouring regions are expected to throng the venue to witness the big event that aims at exploring various trade, investment and business opportunities available in the region famously known as the Rock City. This is the second regional forum after another successful one held in Simiyu Region in February, that saw members of the business community, parliamentarians, government leaders and people from various private and public institutions, among others, coming together to discuss the various business and investment challenges as well as exploring the available opportunities in the region.The forum is organized by the Tanzania Standard Newspapers (TSN) Limited in collaboration with the office of the Mwanza Regional Commissioner (RC) and other partners. TSN publishes Daily News, HabariLeo , Sunday News, HabariLeo Jumapili and SpotiLeo .So far, 15 partners have confirmed to participate at the historic forum. They are the National Microfinance Bank (NMB), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), TIB Development Bank, TIB Corporate Bank, Tanzania Postal Bank (TPB), Vodacom, PPF Pension Fund, Tanzania Telecommunication Company Limited (TTCL), Victoria Palace Hotel, The Rock City Shopping and More and Local Authorities Pension Fund (LAPF).Others are Medical Stores Department (MSD), Watumishi Housing Company (WHC), National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) and the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC). At the event that will be attended by small traders, businesspeople and business tycoons business experts are expected to present several papers concerning trade, business and investment opportunities in Mwanza Region, as early as 9a.m. Mwanza Region is a major industrial pole of Northwest Tanzania.There are varieties of industrial, manufacturing and processing industries ranging from small to large-scale. These include edible oil mills, printing shops, metal workshops, processing plants, soft drinks manufacturing, bottling industries and cosmetics/soap making factories, among others.Manufacturing industries employ about 38 percent of Mwanza residents as per Mwanza Master Plan 2008- 28. Industries in Mwanza are closely related with products generated by the agriculture sector within the region.Processing, beverage industries for example employs the semi-skilled workforce. Mwanza, is among the fast growing regions experiencing fast population growth by both natural birth at 3 percent while 8 percent constitutes inter-region migration.According to the Mwanza RC, Mr John Mongella. The Population Census 2012 indicated that the region had 2,772,509 people. However, the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) projection concluded that as of 2015, the region s population was expected to increase to 3,031,422, with an average population density of 235 persons per kilometre square, higher than all the Lake Zone Regions.This means, today s business forum is a historic platform that is expected to set the region s business tone as well as highlighting potential areas of investment that will help the government to boost the economy of the country as well as making all the social services available to the citizens of the lake zone. According to Mr Mongella, his region now wants a robust transformation from small to huge investment. We have people in the region who have between 500m/ and 1bn/- but they have consistently been failing to put in place proper investment to acquire super profit, therefore I believe that this forum has a potential importance to the people of Mwanza region, he said during an interview with the Daily News. 