After almost two weeks of recession, the league returns this weekend, with an exciting fixture list, which could slightly determine where the title will be heading this season.The action begins today with a derby battle between defending champions Yanga and Azam, then another exciting fixture to pit league leaders Simba and Kagera Sugar will follow at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba on Sunday. These two fixtures will certainly give a clue, who will likely win the league crown.For both Yanga and Simba, these games surely fall into the category of must-win . Any slip up will give the either side a chance to close in on the title. Only two matches will be on the card today. Apart from Yanga versus Azam clash, the day will also see Mbeya City taking on Ruvu Shooting at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya.Definitely, Yanga versus Azam match will be an attention puller today. With both sides looking at having an opportunity to steal a match against the other in the league s title race, today s fixture will certainly be a mouthwatering deadly battle, which is expected to draw the roadmap to the title this season.For Yanga, this will be a make or break encounter because any slip up will dent their hope in a race for title defence. On the other hand, Azam are slightly outsiders in the race for silverware, sitting 11 points off the pace on 44 points with only six matches to go.Azam have an unrealistic chance to topple Simba who are top of the table on 55 points and second placed Yanga on 53 points, but that does not mean they will just sit back to be punished by Yanga today. Yanga have to be at their best to beat Azam, who thrashed them 4-0 in the Mapinduzi Cup match in Zanzibar early this year.Definitely, Azam will also go for a win to improve their slight chance to get back into the title race picture. The ice cream makers attacking force will depend on their captain Yahya Mohamed, Joseph Mahundi and youngster Ramadhan Singano, who will be given the task to finish their opponents.Sulking Zimbabwean striker, Donald Ngoma is likely to miss the game as report said he was not with the rest of the squad ready for the game against Azam. With Ngoma and Amissi Tambwe still out, the defending champions will bank their hopes on Zambian striker Aubrey Chirwa and evergreen wing wizard, Simon Msuva to downsize Azam and go top of the table.Yanga will be seeking to grab the three crucial points which will see them move above their closer competitors and league leaders Simba, who are sidelined until tomorrow when they face host Kagera Sugar at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba.Any draw or defeat for Yanga in a game today, will provide an opportunity for Simba to open for or five points gap at the top of the table if they win their game against Kagera Sugar tomorrow.Against Kagera Sugar, who are positioned fourth on 42 points, it will not be an easy task for Simba and already the Bukoba lads coach, Mecky Maxime has warned Simba to expect the worst. We will halt their title race campaign, said the former Taifa Stars skipper, saying his charges are well prepared for the battle.Youthful and new kid on the block, Mbaraka Yusuf, who scored a winner for Taifa Stars against Burundi will point the gun at his former employer - Simba. With ten goals in the league so far, Mbaraka who came through the ranks of Simba will be a real threat for his former team.