But despite the freezing weather and accompanying precipitation, Faraja Lazaro from the National Service (JKT) team, managed to lead the pack in the rather challenging 21 kilometres long, Ngorongoro Half Marathon in covering the distance in 1 hour, 3 minutes and 42 seconds. Steven Huche (1:03:50) from Guwang team, finished second in the race which started from the Loduare Gate, an entrance to Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA) as well as gateway into the Serengeti National Park from Arusha via Karatu. Basil John who raced for Police team, was the third to arrive at the finishing point (using 1:03:50) which was placed in the Mazingira Bora Playgrounds and meeting arena in Karatu township. Erick Anorld, from Longido, who almost slipped and fell as he raced into the muddy grounds in Karatu, was the fourth runner to make it into the finishing point, ahead of Augustino Sulle (5th) and Paul Paschal (6th) both from the Talent team of Arusha. For the lady runners, it was Failuna Abdi (1:13:18), who topped the bill, she raced for Talent Club of Arusha. In the second position was Angelina Daniel (1:13:53), from the National Service (JKT) team, while Jackline Sakili (1:14:49) from the Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) finished in the third position ahead of Marcelina Issa (1:17:12) again from the National Service (JKT). Organisers of the event are the Meta Sports Promotion and as usual the event was bankrolled by the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA), Bonite Bottlers, Roy Safaris of Arusha and Patamu Restaurant of Karatu. The 21 kilometres Half-Marathon ‘Race against poaching,’ was flagged off at the entrance into Ngorongoro Conservation Area, the Loduare Gate, by both the Ngorongoro District Commissioner (DC), Rashid Taka and Karatu District Commissioner (DC) Theresia Mahongo. Apart from the main racing event, there were also supplementary races such as the usual 5 kilometres run for Secondary School Students and the newly introduced 2.5 kilometres run for the younger Primary School Pupils. All the top 15 finishers will be awarded but so far it was the cash prizes for the top four that were announced. These prizes range from 1 million/- for the first winners in both categories, 500,000/- for the second winner, 250,000/- for the third and 100,000/- for the fourth winner.