A scene of lined-up freezers is something that grabs your eye sight first as you approach at the place. Then you would repeatedly hear a word welcome from the fish sellers who each of them trying to attract you buy their fish.At around 10am, Mr Kabyemela, a fairly black man (53), in a blue t-shirt and brown trouser, seen quickly moving from where he seated on one of the freezers used to store fish on sale, rushing to the writer of this article. You are welcome I have nice fish here on reasonable prices for you how many can I sell to you? he asks as he opens the freezer for the writer to see. He is among hundreds of the poor Mwanza residents whose lives have positively changed after engaging in fish business.Over the past 10 years he has been in this business, and he always thankful to the Lake Victoria which has offered him an income generation activity. The fish trade has made me proud. Through this I man aged to afford paying for my child s school fees from Standard One up to College level now, he says, noting that the needs for his ten-member family is something that cannot give him a headache since his business provides him an income for serving his family on daily basis.Narrating over his past life, Mr Kabyemela reveals that he struggling to serve his family from little he was gaining from peasantry. He says fish trade has great benefits, noting that huge percentage of Mwanza dwellers depend on the Lake Victoria and a number of visitors go for the fish business, thus became important for the regional and national economy.He appeals to the government and other stakeholders to look for means of empowering artisanal fishers grow to mid-level fishers so that they supply more fish to the dealers and meet the demand in the market.Ms Elizabeth Madaha, is another fish seller at the place, who has been selling the fish for 11 years now. Like Mr Kabyemela, she is also a living proof of how the Lake Victoria improved income to poor people in the region. She says the business has made her able to afford sending her children to private schools, which very costly when compared to public schools. Above all, she is grateful to have built her own house using the money from the fish trade and thus turned from tenant to landlord . Through this business, I have managed to get capital for starting up other businesses, she says. Ms Madaha is a good representation of hundreds of business women at the Kamanga fish market who depend on the Lake Victoria for getting their daily bread. As only three days remaining ahead of the Mwanza Business Forum, Tanzania Women Chamber of Commerce (TWCC) in Mwanza region desires to see an agenda of freedom of women entrepreneurs at the family level to enable them travel for marketing their products. The event is organized by the Mwanza regional authority in partnership with Tanzania Standard newspapers (TSN) under sponsorship by TIB Development Bank, TIB Corporate Bank, the National Economic Empowerment Council (NEEC), Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), Local Authority Pensions Fund (LAPF), National Microfinance Bank (NMB) and National Housing Corporation (NHC). The TWCC said some husbands in the city still embracing outdated cultural values that obstruct their wives from independently doing businesses, particularly those involving trips for selling their goods. The chairperson of the chamber, Ms Mariamu Munanka, plans to push the issue of women freedom as their main agenda during the coming Forum. Male dominance is still prevalence in the region, something which hinders the group from depending themselves. They can t travel and leave the families for marketing their products, Ms Munanka said in an interview with the Daily News. In the same vein, she added, the stakeholders should up the awareness campaign among the women, for instance, over procedures on how to export their goods to neighboring countries since many of them are still ignorant. The government and Non Governmental Organisations have made efforts aimed at empowering the women entrepreneurs in terms of financial support as well as entrepreneurship education. Currently, district councils allocate 10 per cent of their revenues to provide soft loans to the women and youth in their jurisdictions for them to use as business capital. Mwanza Regional Fisheries Surveillance Officer, Mr Lameck Mongo says in 2015 fish catchment in Lake Victoria were 609,204 tonnes, valued at 811.4bn. Out of this, Mwanza region had a share of 327,676 tonnes, earning the region a total of 382.4bn/ It is estimated that 7 per cent of the regional Gross Domestic Product (GDP) comes from fishing related activities which create more income to the population of the region as well as neighboring regions, Mr Mongo says.