Welcoming Ethiopian Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, at the State House in Dar es Salaam for a state visit yesterday, President John Magufuli said Ethiopia s athletics experts will offer free training and techiniques for Tanzania athletes to win in the international events.The president was pleased to see the two countries sign a landmark agreement in sports development. We have agreed to cooperate in the area of athletics ... under the agreement, Tanzania athletes will benefit from Ethiopia running phenomenon because our counterpart have made huge stride in the sport, said the president.He said Ethiopia will provide much needed experience to Tanzania in athletics, adding that world class athletes from Ethiopia come from similar environment like that found in the Rift Valley area in Tanzania.President Magufuli mentioned former world class athlete Haile Gebrselassie as among runners that Tanzania athletes have to learn from. Two-time Olympic gold medallist long distance runner Gebrselassie is currently Head of the Ethiopian Athletics Federation.Gebrselassie retired from competitive running in 2015, but refused to slow down. The 43-year-old jog through high altitude Yaya Village, 10 miles north of Addis Ababa. On his side, Ethiopia Prime Minister Desalegn, said, We have come up with very potential and landmark agreements. Ethiopia is well known for its athletics prowess. Together with Kenya they are the leading countries in the world for producing long and middle distance runners in the world. Runners from the two countries have dominated world athletics for almost five decades and their dominance does not seem likely to end anytime.In the past Tanzania also produced a number of world class runners who were almost at par or even above the runners from Kenya and Ethiopia.The likes of Filbert Bayi, Juma Ikangaa, Gidamis Shahanga, Suleiman Nyambui and Mwinga Mwanjala were some of the world class runners that the country produced but of recent, the country has failed miserably at the international stage.And among the factors affecting athletics according to several experts is that the sport was beleaguered by poor management, inefficiency and corruption. Other factors include poor management of athletes, lack of sports marketing and sponsoring as well organising and advising athletic events.