Speaking from Rabat, Shime oozed confidence over his side s preparations ahead of the continental youth finals, saying the Morocco has given his side a very good experience and the team has changed a lot. Now there is a big difference in the team compared to the last time Tanzanians saw them playing. The Rabat camp has been very conducive for our preparations and training programs. We have had enough time to grill the team in readiness for the Gabon finals, he said.While in Rabat, the Serengeti Boys played two build-up games against hosts of the AYC finals, Gabon, winning both fixtures with a 2-1 scoreline.Shime said the games gave his team a good litmus test and provided him with a platform to gauge the fitness and readiness of all his lads ahead of making their bow to the youth finals. Shime said he was pleased the performance displayed by his youngsters during the games, and believes the Boys are ready to fly the country s flag at the African finals.The coach urged Tanzanians to show support to their team as he is upbeat the boys are capable of winning the nation honours in Gabon. Serengeti Boys wound up their Morocco camp yesterday and flew to Yaound , Cameroon where they will camp for some few weeks before heading to Gabon ready for the 12th edition of the AYC which kicks off from 14 to 28, May.While in Yaound , Serengeti will play two more strengthening-testing matches against their Cameroonian counterparts to fine tune for their debut AYC campaign. Serengeti Boys is pooled in group B alongside defending champions Mali, Niger and Angola.Serengeti Boys is targeting to win the championship and book a ticket to the Youth World Cup finals scheduled for November in India. In another development, looking to prop up the team, Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) has organized a fundraising Dinner gala at the Serena Hotel in Dar es Salaam this evening, which will be graced by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa. TFF had earlier this year announced that a 1bn/- in funding was needed to facilitate Boys preparations for the AYC.Serengeti Boys won their ticket to the AYC finals, following their successful appeal in October, last year against Congo Brazzaville, who fielded Langa Less Bercy, who was later proved to be aged above 17 years. In 2005 Serengeti boys qualified for the finals but the team was later disqualified for fielding an over aged player Nurdin Bakari, during the qualifying rounds.