He said he was misquoted when he said he was seeking assurance from their hosts how to help the left behind players survive in the foreign land.Eleven players were left behind after failing to catch up the flight back home after a disastrous 4-0 beating on Saturday. We were in a foreign country and we had to ask for the assistance from our hosts, but it was not begging as it was alleged, he said. Mkwasa was left with eleven players in Algeria after they arrived late at Houari Boumiediene Airport in Algiers, hence missing their flight back home. The players include goalkeepers Deogratius Munishi Dida and Beno Kakolanya; fullbacks , Juma Abdul, Oscar Joshua, Haji Mwinyi Mngwali, Andrew Vincent Dante and Kevin Yondani. Others who missed the flight were midfielders Thabani Kamusoko, Haruna Niyonzima, Deus Kaseke and a striker Donald Ngoma. On the other side, players of the first group, led by the team captain, Nadir Haroub managed to leave Algiers aboard Emirates and arrived here yesterday. The players included Has san Kessy, Said Juma Makapu , Simon Msuva, Geoffrey Mwashiuya, Juma Mahadhi and Amissi Tambwe via Dubai. Also in the group were the head coach, George Lwandamina, his assistant Juma Mwambusi, physical trainer Noel Mwandila and the goalkeepers coach, Juma Pondamali and the team manager Hafidh Ally. The players who were left in Algiers were scheduled to catch Turkish Airline flight late yesterday. Yanga, the only Tanzanian envoys in the continental class championship, suffered a 4-0 defeat to MC Alger in Algeria on Saturday, ending their Group Stage hopes. MC Alger managed to overturn the 1-0 away loss to Yanga by thrashing the Tanzanian envoys 4-0 in the Confederation Cup playoff return leg match at the Stade du 5 Juillet 1962 in Algiers. Midfielder Sid Ahmed Aouedj scored a brace the 14th minute and the 90 minute of the game respectively, with the opening goal coming after the scorer connected home Walid Derrardja pass from the left wing to tap the ball past goalkeeper Deogratius Munishi to give his side the lead of the match. In the 65th minute, Zahir Zerdab beat Yanga defence to score the third goal and Aouedj netted the fourth in the 90th minute from a rebound.