Simba won the appeal against Kagera Sugar for fielding ineligible player Mohamed Fakhi, who was serving a three yellow card ban. Simba lost the match 2-1 at the Kaitaba Stadium two weeks ago, with Kagera Sugar goals coming from star striker, Mbaraka Yusuf and Edward Christopher.Simba s lone goal was scored by Mzamiru Yassin. According to TFF Media and Communication Officer, Alfred Lucas, the Legal and Players Status Committee will meet to discuss the appeal lodged by Kagera Sugar who vehemently oppose awarding Simba the victory, claiming the three-card allegation was not real. According to the TFF constitution, the committee has the authority to meet in such a situation to interpret various laws and regulations governing football in the country. In this case, the committee will meet to review and interpret a decision made by the federation s 72 hour committee on Thursday, Lucas said.If the decision to award Simba three points is reversed, the course for the league title is likely to change then. The successful appeal shot up to the Mainland Premier League helm with 62 points including a draw with Toto Africans at the CCM Kirumba Stadium.On the opposite side, Kagera Sugar who were placed third above fourth placed Azam, dropped to the fourth place with 42 points after losing crucial 3 points.The Reds who had opened a six points gap over their closest challengers and defending champions Young Africans, the gap will be reduced to only 3 points if Kagera Sugar win their appeal.Simba have played 27 matches, two more than Yanga. The earlier ruling by a 72-hour committee, also was a big blow to Kagera Sugar striker, Mbaraka Yusuf, who is chasing for the golden boot alongside Shiza Kichuya of Simba and Young Africans Simon Msuva.Not only Kagera Sugar and Simba who are keenly hoping for the best from today s meeting. Defending champions, Yanga are also involved in it as any decision will affect them in one way or another.Yanga, who have been eliminated from major tournaments at the continental level, will automatically pray for Kagera Sugar s appeal to win since any act that reduces Simba s speed will help flourish their title defending campaign.In another development, the Confederation f African Football (CAF) has approved the Uhuru Stadium in Dar see Salaam and CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza to host various international matches.According to Lucas, the two venues have been given a green light to host any international match at the level of clubs and national teams. TFF take this opportunity to congratulate owners of the two venues for making required improvements to meet CAF standards, he said.Uhuru Stadium is owned by the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports and of recent it underwent a massive renovation. CCM Kirumba Stadium is owned by ruling party -- Chama Cha Mapinduzi.CAF and FIFA official, Maxwell Mtouga inspected the two venues recently to measure its readiness for hosting the international tournaments.