The Central Bank took over administration of a small bank, Twiga Bancorp last October for lack of adequate capital, suspending the senior management and board of directors.A latest report issued by the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) in Dodoma yesterday said the bank (TWB) was falling into a serious financial crisis and the central bank should intervene before it s fully bankrupt. Trend of day-today bank capital is on break. TWB must take concrete steps to ensure it keeps up with the standard capital adequacy ratio, Prof Mussa Assad told reporters here shortly after tabling his report in the National Assembly.The apex auditor explained that the capital ratio for the bank was below 5bn/as required by the Banking and Financial Institution Act, 1991.The government owned bank was created in 2007 and registered as a limited liability company with a sharehold ing structure comprising of 97 per cent government and 3 per cent private individuals and entities. It officially started operation in 2009, with a passion and commitment towards empowering women economically and socially.In a report tabled to the parliament, the CAG found the bank has during the financial year ending June 2016 released loan amounting to 655m/-without adhering to best practices,including proof of companies loaned. The bank did not pay attention to identity or obtaining collaterals from loan applicants ... This bank was indeed supposed to be closed, he said.The CAG however urged the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to track the performance of the bank which has shown all signs it would become bankrupt. He said the continuation of the undercapitalized institution poses risk to financial institution.Last year, BoT took over operations of Twiga Bancorp. The move came barely four months after President John Magufuli ordered the central bank to take action against failing banks which are owned by the government.BoT Governor Prof Benno Ndulu told a news conference in Dar es Salaam that Twiga Bancorp had been placed under statutory man agement of the central bank because its capital had fallen to alarming levels. The bank started with a core capital of Sh7 billion but continued to record losses amounting to Sh21 billion, Ndulu clarified. Speaking at the BoT s 50th anniversary celebrations in Dar es Salaam in June, last year, President Magufuli publicly criticized Twiga Bancorp for being in the red and demanded appropriate action from the central bank.The president said it was unacceptable that the government was using taxpayers money to pay for operations of the state-owned bank, which he said had posted losses of up to Sh18 billion.The CAG report that was released on Thursday in Dodoma indicates that TWB was heading in the red and that BoT need to intervene into the matter as soon as possible.