Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) had earlier this year announced that a 1bn/- in funding was needed to facilitate Boy s preparations for the AYC. The fund-raising dinner gala was attended by Chief Executive Officers (CEOs), business people, fans of football, wananchi , football legends and other government officials. These are our boys. We need to support them to make sure they win all their matches and eventually qualify for the U-17 World Cup finals to be held in India , this October. We are the ones obliged to join hands to support our boys technically, financially and morally until we reach the desired end, he said during a fundraising staged in Dar es Salaam on Friday evening.The PM, a qualified football coach, underscored the importance of investing on youth, recalling that most successful nations in sports invested on nurturing youth talents. He said sports is a key sector in increasing employment, improving health, propelling economy, building national unity as well as promoting the country at the international stage.He reiterated that the fifth phase government is keen to develop sports in the country, adding that the government has already embarked on a number of programmes to make sure youth talents are discovered. Most of the successful nations in sports invested on nurturing youth talents, thus, we decided to return interschool games, UMITASHUMTA and UMISETA investing in young athletes in primary and secondary schools, as they are the future of the country s sports, he said.The premier urged Tanzanians to rally behind the team by raising funds to help the team foot preparation costs and assured contributors that the money will be used accordingly. The PM, however, was optimistic that Serengeti Boys will win all their games to the continent s biggest youth finals, hence qualified for the U-17 World Cup finals.On his part, Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe, urged full support from Tanzanians to facilitate what he described as sport milestone achievement in the country that has been reached by the boys.TFF President Jamal Malinzi revealed that this is the second time for Tanzania to qualify for U-17 AYC, the last year was 1980. For 37 years we ve never reached where Serengeti Boys are now going to, so that is a ray of hope, there is a little ray of light which shows the direction in which Tanzanians are heading to, he commented.As Tanzania eyes to host AYC games in 2019, Malinzi urged Tanzanians, sports stakeholders, the government and other sports fans to channel their funds to support the federation s programmes to groom youngsters for the coming tournaments. The general public has a crucial role to play in football and sports in general developments in the country and that is why we decided to establish Football Development Fund (FDF), he noted. After almost a month-long training camp in Morocco, Serengeti Boys are now in Cameroon where they will camp for 10-day before heading to Gabon for the AYC finals.