Kagera Sugar Secretary General, Mohamed Hussein, has promised that his well-drilled side will collect maximum three points in the match to be played at the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba.Hussein said all his boys were in great form following their impressive 2-1 win against Simba SC last Sunday. We intend to put up a spirited fight and win the match. Our intention is to clinch the mainland title or the second place, he said.After their successful 2-1 win against the Msimbazi Street Club, Kagera Sugar are now on the third place with 45 points. A win for the Bukoba lads will see them closing gap to second placed Simba to seven points and eight below leaders Young Africans. With at least five matches to go for almost all teams, the title race is heading down to the wire. In today s encounter, Kagera Sugar will be depending on industrious striker Mbaraka Yusuph to tear apart JKT Ruvu defence. Yusuph was inspirational during their encounter with Simba, scoring the opener in the 27th minute, before Edward Christopher banged in the second a minute after the break. Simba pulled one back through Muzamiru Yassin. Other league matches lined up for today will see hosts Mbeya City taking on Mtwara s Ndanda FC at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, while Majimaji of Songea will play host to African Lyon of Dar es Salaam at the Majimaji Stadium in Ruvuma. The league will continue tomorrow with Stand United of Shinyanga taking on Mbeya s Tanzania Prisons at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. Title contenders Simba will be in action on Monday, facing a daunting task against Mbao FC of Mwanza at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. Still licking their wounds, following a shocking defeat at the hands of Kagera Sugar, Simba will need nothing shot of the victory, that will not only take them back at the top of the table but also put pressure on title rivals Young Africans, who will be on the sidelines. The day will also see Morogoro s Mtibwa Sugar taking on Azam FC at the Manungu grounds in Morogoro.