The call was issued yesterday by the Vice-President, Samia Suluhu Hassan on behalf of President John Magufuli, when receiving Queen s Elizabeth baton at the State House in Dar es Salaam yesterday.She said only good preparation will help teams and athletes win medals in Australia. She urged athletes to work hard to enable the country regain the glorious reign of athletics legends such as Filbert Bayi, whose 1,500m Commonwealth record is yet to be broken since he set it in Christchurch News Zealand in 1974.Bayi won the country s first gold medal in the race after beating John Walker of New Zealand and Ben Jipcho of Kenya on his way to break Jim Ryun s record. She said Bayi s record has remained unbroken for 43 years now and wished it be broken by Tanzanians of the present generation.Adding, she said the government will work closely with athletes and give them support to ensure they deliver. The government understands that athletes don t shine recently as they used to do in the past when both Tanzanian athletes and boxers dominated world class events, she said.Tanzania won its first Commonwealth Games medal in 1970 through boxer Titus Simba who won silver. Tanzania won two medals, a gold won by Bayi in 1,500m race and bronze clinched by Claver Kamanya in 400m race.It was in Australia where Tanzania recorded a medal haul after coming with 5 medals in 1982. Gidamis Shahanga won gold in marathon, while Juma Ikangaa and Zakaria Barie won a silver and a bronze in 10,000. Haji Ally, a boxer won a silver medal and the last bronze was won by a javelin thrower, Zakayo Marekwa.Queen s baton relay began yesterday at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam in an occasion graced by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Harrison Mwakyembe.The minister said the country s Uhuru Torch needs similar treatment like the Queen s baton relay which visits 71 Commonwealth countries. Thousands participate in the Queen s baton relay and millions are spent to enable the baton visit Commonwealth countries to bring Club Games awareness, he said.He added that its arrival in the country also serves the same purpose; to tell Tanzanian athletes to start preparation for the 2018 Club Games of Gold Coast, Australia. It was in Australia again where Tanzania won its last gold medal in 2006.Samson Ramadhani from TPDF won a gold medal in the marathon after beating top athletes from England, Kenya and Australia.In retrospect, Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner, Paul Makonda said when handing over the baton to the athletes along Mandela Road the baton serves like the Uhuru Torch to propagate unity, brotherhood and solidarity.After the end of Dar es Salaam tour yesterday, the Queen s baton was expected to reach Arusha before coming back to Dar es Salaam today. Tanzania plans to compete for medals in athletics, boxing and swimming.