The 1-0 victory against Azam in the Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) semi-final at the National Stadium yesterday, placed the team in the final and will meet either Young Africans or Mbao FC who play today in the second final at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza.Mathematically, the victory puts to an end the team s long absence in the international tournaments, as playing in the final also helps the loser if it happens the team fail to clinch the Mainland League title, that this season is assailable by Simba and their traditional rivals Yanga.The win delighted Simba fans, officials and supporters as the club also escaped what could be termed a loss hat-trick. Azam had beaten Simba twice in their previous meetings. Mohamed Ibrahim scored the vital goal for Simba in the 48th minute, before he was given marching orders later on.In that match Azam FC suffered a big blow in the 15th minute after their midfield star, Abubakar Salum was given marching orders by Mwanza-based referee Mathew Akrama, after he fouled Simba striker Ibrahim Ajib.However, Azam players protested strongly claiming Ajib had dived. Ajib won the appeal and the referee punished Salum. The incident could result into chaos, but security officials who intervened calmed the situation and the game continued.After the fracas, the game resumed with each team playing a cautious game so as not to allow an early goal. The teams went for a breather scoreless.The second half began well for Simba, their careful raid at Azam goal just three minutes after resumption, awarded them the much awaited goal. It was a Burundian Import, Laudit Mavugo who started it all from the right flank.His volley found Ibrahim unmarked before the player curled a shot past Azam FC keeper, Aishi Manula.The goal forced Azam to wake up from a slumber and began to raid Simba goal in a search of an equaliser. To overcome the threat, Simba reorganised their defence to thwart all dangers. Mo Ibrahim, the scorer of the winner, faced the referee s wrath in 77th minute.Referee Akram sent the player out after getting the second yellow card after fouling Azam defender Shomari Kapombe.In 84th minute, a Congolese defender, Janvier Besala Bokungu saved Simba from disgrace when he cleared John Bocco s header on the line. But, on the other side, the defeat means Azam FC won t play any continental class events next season.Azam s other ticket, Championship league, also can not be attained due to the team s poor position in the Premier League. Lines up Simba: Daniel Agyei, Janvier Bokungu, Mohammed Hussein, Juuko Murshid, James Kotei/Said Ndemla (88min), Jonas Mkude, Shizza Kichuya, Muzamil Yassin, Laudit Mavugo/Mwinyi Kazimoto dk(86min), Ibrahim Hajib and a Mohammed Ibrahim.Azam FC: Aishi Manula, Shomary Kapombe, Gardiel Michael, Aggrey Morris, Daniel Amoah, Himid Mao, Stephan Kingue/Joseph Mahundi (58min), Shaaban Iddi/Frank Domayo(46min), Salum Abubakar Sure Boy and Ramadhani Singano Messi /Mudathir Yahya (82min).