Coming fresh from last week s 1-0 victory over Azam FC in the domestic league, Yanga will need nothing but a convincing win in the 2nd 1/16th round first leg.Yanga are involved in the Confederation Cup because they were among round-of-32 casualties in the much richer, more prestigious CAF Champions League after being knocked out by Zambia s Zanaco FC last month. They are among 16 losers demoted to the Confederation Cup, whose 1.25 million US dollars first prize is half that of the Champions League.Going into the match today, Yanga players have been advised to put aside their off the pitch problems and focus on their game. Yanga, the country s only representatives in continental tournament in club level need convincing win against the Algerians but internal squabbles are threatening the team s stability.The Algerian side jetted in the country on Thursday ready for the first leg and the hosts have been cautioned to put aside the problems to ensure they register positive results. It is alleged that players are planning to boycott, pressuring the club management to settle their unpaid salaries.Yanga Secretary General, Charles Boniface Mkwasa, confirmed having heard about the players intention to boycott but he pleaded with them to shelve the move as the leadership was working round the clock to make sure that the players are duly paid. We have heard the intention of the players to boycott but the leadership is asking them to withdraw their plan. We ask them to put aside the problem and focus on the crucial coming game for the benefit of their club and country, while the leadership is working to resolve the matter, he said.The match is vital for both sides in the campaign to book a ticket which will allow them to cruise into the groups stage of the continental second tier clubs tournament. To make matter worse, Yanga is said to be facing injuries woes which is unsettling the technical bench. Key players - midfielders Justin Zulu and Thaban Kamusoko, strikers Donald Ngoma and Amiss are uncertain to take part in the clash due to injuries.Commenting on their game against MC Alger, Yanga Assistant Coach, Juma Mwambusi said they want to play well and win the crucial match. He said they had work on some weaknesses they had discovered in the last game against Azam in the Mainland Premier League as they need most to utilise well their final chance.Mwambusi also said as team they need to work hard to take the chance as it might be difficult in the return leg a week later in Algiers. Ahead of the dicey encounter, Yanga captain, Nadir Haroub has said they are poised to secure a huge victory at home to put them in a good stead for the return leg next week.Haroub said they need to work hard and utilise the home advantage to ensure they cruise into the group stage by winning the game by big margin. On his part, midfielder Haruna Niyonzima has declared that they are looking forward to the contest, with a clean sheet their major objective. It will be a tough game and we have to organise our energy and focus towards the game. This is our last chance and we need to grab it; else we are doomed, said Niyonzima.Rwandan referee, Louis Hakizimana will be in charge of the game and he will be assisted by Theogene Ndagijimana and Jean Bosco. The fourth official will be Ruzindana Nsoro also from Rwanda, while match commissioner will be Ata Elmanan Hassan Osama from Sudan.