Although there is no specific number of cases to determine within a month, the acting Chief Justice Professor Ibrahim Juma led programme aims at disposing thousands of cases to ensure timely dispensation of justice and restores public confidence on the institution.In a recent judicial public notice, the High Court Registrar Ilvin Mgeta, called on all members of the public to cooperate during the special backlog clean-up sessions.As far as cases before the High Court are concerned, the notice reads, In implementing the strategic plan of the Judiciary of Tanzanian to ensure timely justice, the Judiciary will conduct a special exercise to clear old cases as from April 24, 2017. The Registrar further states, A notice is given to the public and stakeholders that the list of cases involved in this first phase of (the) programme in each court is available at the notice boards of all courts and on the website of the court.You are advised to arrive at the notice boards of those courts. Moreover, such a similar exercise continues in all district courts and resident magistrate s court which started since March 27, 2017. We are requesting your cooperation and fully participation to ensure the exercise is successful. Already, the judiciary has in place a roadmap to ensure expedition of the cases, with each judge required to hear and determine 220 cases annually, while magistrates at Resident and District courts have to handle 250 cases within the same period.The target is to see all cases that have two year life time are disposed of completely. It is stated that fresh cases filed at the High Court should remain in the registry not more than two years, while 18 months have been set as the life time for cases at the resident and district courts.Court of Appeal Registrar John Kahyoza yesterday pointed out that the Court of Appeal alone has about 190 cases to determine within the special programme. Among the cases, seven are criminal, 43 civil litigations and 87 civil applications as well as five cases of other nature.Mr Kahyoza was last year quoted as saying that Dar es Salaam and Tabora Zones were the most overloaded with old cases at the High Court level. We have taken a deliberate move to ensure these cases do not remain in court registries, he said.He revealed that over 2,807 old cases remained undetermined for the period of between five and ten years, with 575 cases, pending for over ten years while the remaining 2,292 were in court for over five years. We want these cases disposed of timely.Otherwise, the Judiciary s mission of dispensing justice timely will be defeated. We are happy to inform you that we have received positive responses from parties and other stakeholders involved in the cases, he was quoted as saying.Meanwhile, the High Court Registrar has announced that the Judiciary, through its Strategic Plan Five Year 2015/16 - 2019/20, plans to expand the scope of its services to the needs of special groups, creating a Joint Centre that will deal with succession cases.