UCSAF is also collaborating with other stakeholders under the ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children in implementing telemedicine project. THE UCSAF’s Secretary, Ms Justina Mashiba, told this newspaper that the find had contributed 100m/- for production of the delivery map. She said that 50m/- was issued for the First Phase of the project that had been completed and another 50m/- for the Second Phase, which is underway. A postcode is a string of numeric number identifying a given postal delivery point or area and for Tanzania the area that is pinpointed is a Ward and the Postcode list for the United Republic of Tanzania were published under the Government Gazette Notice No. 220 of June 22, 2012. On telemedicine programme, UCSAF has set aside funds for purchase of some essentials items to be used by the selected hospitals implementing the programme. According to her, a task force has been formed to coordinate and see how reagents at Muhimbili National Hospital, Bagamoyo, Tumbi, Mwananyamala, Amana and Temeke hospitals can be improved and used in telemedicine. “The Fund has set aside money for purchasing some of the reagents that will enable the selected hospitals to operationalise telemedicine system” noted Ms Mashiba. UCSAF, under sponsorship of UK Space Agency, is implementing “I Knowledge” project in which primary and secondary schools are given ICT equipment and connected to internet services through Avanti Communications Company. “A total of 250 schools (150 of which are secondary schools) all over the country have benefitted from the project. Through this project, 10 schools in each region (except in Dar es Salaam) have been connected to internet services. One primary school has been selected and given status of ‘ICT Academy’, the school has therefore been given 17 laptops and a projector for teaching purposes” explained Ms Mashiba. The Fund is also implementing a digital broadcasting service project in newly formed regions of Simiyu, Njombe, Geita and Katavi. Through the project, UCSAF has dished out 100m/- subsidy for distribution of 2,000 satellite decoders (DTT-Direct to Home).