This move has been prompted by the stark reality that some illegal aliens have been living on the fringes of Lake Tanganyika for 46 years. It is rather incredible that illegal foreigners should mingle with village communities and enjoy all rights that should be apportioned to nationals for all this long with the village government remaining silent. We are told that Rukwa has 14,000 resident aliens. It is imperative to mention here that this is not the first time the State has moved to identify and possibly flush out illegal foreigners in Rukwa Region. In fact, this noble exercise should be implemented nationwide. In April, last year, the government in Rukwa ordered indigenous Tanzanians who are married to foreigners to report to the department for identification and documentation. In similar vein, foreigners working in the region were summoned for registration. In Rukwa, foreigners are known to be working in hotels, guest houses, bars, private offices, farms and even in homes. All these were required to report to the nearest immigration office for registration, short of which apprehension and legal action would follow. Regional Immigration Officer Selemani Kameya warned that those who would defy this order would face the wrath of the law. He also said that all foreigners who were in the region on a visit of some sort must report at border posts for verification. The upshot of this order was to eventually register all foreigners in the region and, possibly, flush out illegal immigrants, some of whom have been living there for years. Hotels and guest houses were instructed to keep identities of visitors in registers. The intention of the exercise was tighten security. It is imperative to mention here that this move was proper and should be emulated elsewhere in the country. Unfortunately, too many illegal immigrants went underground instead of appearing for registration. Illegal immigrants are a pain in the neck in this country. The nation is downright tired about their escapades. Immigration officers have virtually failed to control illegal immigrants, some of whom come to pursue economic prosperity. Some groups often constitute smugglers of counterfeit goods and opportunists who are keen on improving livelihoods. Most of these aliens normally avoid going through the rigmarole of immigration procedures to evade either arrests or travel costs. They also evade mandatory fees. In some cases the aliens collude with locals including corrupt immigration officers and police. Indeed, all sorts of illegal immigrants must be prevented from entering Tanzanian territory. It is high time the State stemmed the rot.