About 234 houses in Chadule B and Makole area in Dodoma Municipality were marked for demolition mid-last year, paving way for the renovation and expansion of the Dodoma airport. However, as of yesterday, Dodoma regional authorities, through the airport’s authority, announced it had already evaluated and compensated 32 houses during the first phase of the exercise. “We embarked on the process on December 27 last year. Until now, we have compensated about 32 houses whose structures were located within 50 meters from the airstrip fence,” Dodoma Airport Manager Mr Julius Mlungwa told the ‘Daily News’ yesterday. He said the tenants have all been given a one-month notice to ensure they vacate the area by January 27. At least 2.2bn/- (about 100 million US dollars) were spent by the airport’s authority during the first phase, which targeted houses nearby the airstrip fence. Details from Chadule B, whose 226 houses will be affected shows most tenants were happy with how the regional authority was handling the compensation exercise. Speaking to this newspaper, a victim and Committee Chairperson Mr Edward Bujuta said: “We are optimistic now the government will pay all the victims as promised.” He noted that despite compensation delays, the government was honest to refund all the victims as per international standards and governing laws. “We were told that the government has no funds and that it was collecting from its own sources to proceed with the remaining groups,” he further noted. Mr Bujuta went on to say that the committee, formed of at least eight members, was scheduled meet the Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Jordan Rugimbana, on Thursday (yesterday) to deliberate the fate of the remaining victims. Another victim, Mr Omary Chambala, expressed pleasure that the decision by the government to evaluate and pay the victims in accordance with the law and real value of their property prevented unnecessary chaos and disputes. “We were promised a 36-month rent fee, surveyed plots, eight per cent disturbance allowance, transport; and development allowances. All these helped to shut down grievances from the victims,” he said. The lowest payment issued by the airport’s authority was about 5m/- while the highest payout stood at 211m/-. Makole Ward Councillor Mr Abel Shauri recalled that there was initially serious pressure from the government to the tenants, which, however, dwindled as time went by. “We have no idea of the second and third batch…the first one has been paid with no problem from either side. We just urge the government to release the number of household, which have been recalled from the exercise. ” Chadule B Street Chairman Mr Denis Sembuche explained to the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that after the first evaluation, which involved about 234 houses of which 266 were from his area and eight from Makole, the airport management came up with a change of plan, announcing it would spare some houses from the demolition exercise. “The houses that were affected should be given letters to proceed with their redevelopment plan while the authority should consider how best to clear the demolition marks,”