In fact, the conditions in which the majority of children live actually deny them a childhood. The majority of the children hit with extreme difficulties live in the developing world -- over a million of them in Tanzania. Considering that of the 2.2 billion children in the world, at least 1.9 billion live in the developing world, the picture for children is very worrying in poor countries. Without really playing the blame game, it should be the responsibility of every government in the world to ensure that children are given a chance to live decent lives. But as the immediate past the Unicef observed that the problem is that too many governments are making informed, deliberate choices that actually hurt childhood. But again, what should trouble our minds is that when half the world’s children are growing up hungry and unhealthy, when schools have become targets and whole villages are being emptied by AIDS, we should be ashamed that we have failed to deliver on the promise of childhood. The consequences of not paying attention to the problems of children do not need to be overstated. Already, Unicef is warning that meeting the Millennium Development Goals depends on reaching vulnerable children throughout the developing world. Unicef says that there cannot be lasting progress if we continue to overlook the children most in need - the poorest and most vulnerable, the exploited and the abused. Be that the indisputable reality, more than one billion children in the world do not have access to at least one of the seven commodities deemed essential: shelter, water, sanitation, schooling, information, healthcare and food. In fact, it is estimated that more than 600 million children of the world do not have adequate shelter. And the majority of them are in developing countries. In our case, in Tanzania , for instance, it is estimated that over 200,000 children live on the streets. These children do not have homes, they only have food at the mercy of alms givers and they spend cold nights on the streets. These are children who do not have any hope of getting an education. These are children whose future has been shattered. Another scourge that has not spared the world’s children is war. In the 1990s, about 20 million children fled their homes because of war. The Unicef estimates that nearly half of the 3.6 million people killed in wars since 1990 have been children. Millions more were displaced by conflicts, or even forced to take part as child soldiers. As if that were not enough, the problem of HIV/AIDS has not spared the world’s children, especially in sub-Saharan Africa. In just two years (2001-2003), 15 million children lost at least one parent to AIDS. AIDS is a growing threat to children, not just through HIV infection, but because millions have been orphaned by the disease. There are many child-headed homes today because children have lost one or both of their parents. In Africa , even the dying extended family system is failing to cope with the burden of HIV/AIDS. Children are being left in the hands of aged grandparents who have no income to help look after orphaned children. In some extreme cases, children simply do not have any one to look after them and they are being left on their own, daily fending for themselves in a survival strategy that is too hard to bear and usually leaves them with tears every day. Apart from being denied their right to education because of lack of adequate education facilities or the lack of sound policies or programmes, children the world-over continue to suffer from diseases that are curable or that can be prevented. Thousands of children in most developing countries, with the exception of a few countries such as Cuba, die before the age of five because of poor health care systems for them. Millions of other children die from malnutrition because of lack of food. These are the hard realities that governments should face if the future of children has to be secured. There is no choice but to deal with these realities. And when looking at poverty among children, what governments should note is that this kind of poverty is less a factor of income than of basic rights. And this is why governments around the world, including our own in Tanzania, should adopt a human rights-based approach to social and economic development, especially as it is related to the plight of children. When making social and economic programmes or policies, governments should bear in mind the longlasting effects on children. Otherwise children will continue being deprived of some semblance of a normal childhood, facing instead the effects of poverty, war, and AIDS. In Tanzania, and elsewhere in the developing world, we have to change this and give children a normal childhood, which they should deserve as a matter of right and not a matter of privilege.