Under the agreement, Mahindra guarantees the purchase of the August-September 2017 harvest of pigeon peas from over 50 farmers at the predetermined price that ensures costs of production are met and farmers receive a reasonable negotiated profit margin. The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment Prof Adolf Mkenda urged farmers to capitalise and reap immense benefits of the initiative. “I congratulate King’ori SACCOS for organising and positioning themselves to take advantage of this opportunity to have a guaranteed International buyer,” he said at the signing ceremony. He encouraged them that this is only the first phase of this engagement and once trust is built, there will be further opportunities to deeper collaboration. This initiative is implemented under the International Trade Centre (ITC)’s Supporting Indian Trade and Investment for Africa (SITA) project, which is funded by the United Kingdom Department for International Development. Prof Mkenda commended SITA for the pilot initiative which is implementing the bilateral cooperation ambitions in the pulses sector pronounced by the President John Magufuli and the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, during his visit to Tanzania last year. The Assistant Director, Ministry of Agriculture Livestock and Fisheries Mr Beatus Malema urged farmers to ensure that they abide with the contract so that other farmer organisations emulate. He also called on the village and ward executives who were present to pass on a message to the Meru District Executive Director and District commissioner on this initiative and its importance. On his part, an official with Mahindra Mr Dharmendra Pothuri said during the flux in pulses production and market speculation of the last few years, in Tanzania alone, the farm level price for pulses dropped by almost 30 per cent in just few weeks. A sudden drop in market prices can affect the ability of a farmer to send their children to school, repay debts, and even put food on the table. Mahindra and the farmer have agreed on a price based on the cost of production plus a fair profit margin. In partnership with SARI, SITA has also supported the trainings which were conducted between 10th to 19th January to farmers around 250 farmers in Arusha and Babati on agribusiness farming as a business, contract farming and on good agricultural practices to enable farmers to lower their costs of productions and increase their yield. Through this agreement, pulses farmers will benefit from a fair price for their pulses with a minimum assured profit, guaranteed buyer before production begins and reliable income without fear of a sudden price drop. These farmers have also received access to subsidized farming inputs such as improved seed and phosphate fertilizers provided through Selian as part of technology scaling up program.