I’m so frightened of prison as I guess you are scared of hell, that merely hearing or reading the word almost tempts me to cry on the scale of a baby wailing for his next session of constitutionally guaranteed right to milk from his mother. So, I don’t like Kiswahili; I love it. Loving is emphatic, while liking is light. A husband who tells his wife that he likes her risks being divorced, but if he consistently tells her that he loves her, their marriage may, like diamonds, live forever . My one-way love relationship with Kiswahili – because, being lifeless, it can’t reciprocate – stems, not only from the fact that some of its words originally belong to the language, but because some of its speakers are criminals – thieves, maybe robbers, who steal words from other languages and sneak them into theirs. “Ticha”, for teacher, is one such word, which reminds me of Ticha Deo, who we privately referred to as Mwalimu Ng’ombe, due to his hobby of referring to misbehaved students as cows. He taught us that, vagueness was a sin; that we should be precise in whatever we said or wrote, the same way someone should avoid committing sins in order to go to heaven when he or she retires from Mother (Not Father) Earth. That’s why I will recount to you a small drama that occurred, neither once upon a time, nor upon a day, but, precisely, upon a morni-noon: part-morning; part-afternoon, a few weeks ago. The Tabata-Ubungo commuter bus in which I rode was a mini-theatre. The driver was behaving like someone who had smoked a herb that a certain state in Obama’s-andsoon- to-become Trump’s nation has legalised for people aged above 21 to smoke as a social relaxer. The conductor was dressed more shabbily than some drug addicts, and while his hair was as thick as former reggae star Bob Marley’s, it wasn’t as neatly kept. A lady who could have been a Japanese sumo wrestler if she had been a man, was speaking loudly on her mobile phone handset, to someone who was apparently her tenant. She declared that she would kill him, not once but twice, if he didn’t pay rent in two days’ time, and by 6 o’clock on the dot of the second one. Two hours later, I was in the consulting room of Prophet Dominiko Lipua- Lipua, the famous presumed man of God from Goma in eastern Congo. I was driven there by the prospect of converting my stomach into a wellbehaved object; precisely, to stop producing, periodically, radio cassette-style, songs that only I, and noone else can hear. They include Mbaraka Mwinshe’s Mashemeji wangapi ? (How many inlaws?), Tabu ley’s Mokolo nakokufa (The day I die) and Lwambo Lwanzo’s almost endless narrative in praise of someone whose name you would memorize only if you were a genius: Mobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga. The prophet’s pot belly was a potential prize winner, and his head hosted a jungle hat like South Sudanese President Salva Kiir’s. With a little improvisation, his sun glasses could serve as welder’s goggles. He wore a suspended pair of trousers of the sort that the late Reverend Christopher Mtikila fancied. At one end, his shiny black pair of shoes was pointed like sharp nails, and would remind the old generation community of Abunuasi, the mischievous fairy tale character. He furthermore manufactured a huge, killer, Jimmy Carter-like smile, that would literally kill a beautiful girl, a potential bride starved of a prospective bride groom and subsequent husband. Half-way our conversation, I exclaimed, ‘Kanafu’, the nick-name for Brighton John Junala, due to his laziness. I recalled him as a classmate and compatriot in a village in Kagera Region, dangerously close to the Ugandan border. He took off his glasses, surveyed me for a minute or so, embraced me and exclaimed ’Kitenge’, the nick-name derived from my allegedly scandalously tiny, sugarcane-like size. Brighton confessed that he was a conman. We arranged to meet at some restaurant the following day, to exchange notes on the 50 years that had elapsed since we parted, after completing Standard Four in 1964. He gave me 500 million shillings as what he described as “a small symbolic token of excitement over the re-union of longseparated boyhood comrades. ” The non-blessed ‘Congolese prophet’ didn’t show up, his healing clinics came to an abrupt end, and he vanished from the Tanzanian landscape. I wouldn’t be surprised if he resurfaced in Nigeria as Pastor Cliff-edge Ochukwu of the Jesus is Everlasting Amen. Church.