The African Union of the Deaf (AUD) and the Africa Disability Alliance (ADA) say the EAC comes top (Number One) among the continent’s economic blocs in taking care of their disadvantaged members, according to accolades shared during a fact-finding tour at the Community’s head offices here. AUD president, Alex Ndeezi described the EAC as a leading regional bloc within Africa that has implemented a number of advocacy initiatives and policies touching on the people with disabilities. Mr Ndeezi who is also a Ugandan member of parliament commended the EAC Secretariat and the East African Legislative Assembly (EALA) for its efforts at “mainstreaming and advocating” for issues that affect his fraternity. He said AUD was looking forward to supporting EAC initiatives aimed at improving the welfare of the ‘physically challenged’ members of society, and pledged further engagements in pushing “the mainstreaming agenda” both at the regional, continental and international levels The tour was, in turn, slated to call public attention and sensitise the EAC Secretariat on the mandate of AUD and ADA, in addition to familiarising themselves about the Community’s social policy and legislative frameworks on disability. This corporate awareness drive within the EAC institutions was further intended to enlighten AUD and ADA on the process of the Africa Disability Protocol (ADP) in order to seek support for its ratification. ADA is based in South Africa and was led by its Chief Executive Officer, Mr Andrew Dube. The EAC Principal Gender and Community Development Officer, Ms Generose Minani assured the delegation that the Community would seek closer working relationships advocating for the welfare of the people with disabilities. Almost all EAC partner states have policies to mainstream disability concerns at both national and regional levels. “The EAC recognises the need to empower persons with disabilities in line with the provisions of Article 120(c) of the Treaty that calls upon partner states to co-operate amongst themselves in the field of social welfare with respect to, among others, the development and adoption of a common approach towards disadvantaged and marginalised groups,” she said. The groups include children, the youth, the elderly and persons with disabilities through rehabilitation and provision of, among others, foster homes, healthcare, education and training. Other milestones achieved within the disability docket include the EAC policy on the same that was adopted in March 2012. The policy is a yardstick to inform other policies, programmes and sectoral plans among its partner states. The EAC policy on disability aims at providing an enabling environment to empower people with disabilities to facilitate their effective participation in, and their ultimate benefit, from development initiatives. Article 39 of the Common Market Protocol provides for the harmonisation of social policies by partner states in good governance, rule of law and social justice; promotion of equal opportunities and gender equality; promotion and protection of the rights of marginalised and vulnerable groups. The policy promotes a framework for enhancing the recognition of the roles, contributions and potentials of people with disabilities in the development process, strengthen and develop the informal and formal community based support systems and actions for people with disabilities. It provides special safety nets for the people by ensuring and improving access to rehabilitation, education, training and community sports, guide, coordinate and harmonise interventions for people with disabilities.