Chairlady of the Tanzania Women Judges Association (TAWJA) Central Committee, Judge (retired) Engera Kileo said in Dar es Salaam at the weekend that the PCCB usually hands out penalties ranging between Tsh 500,000/- and a million, which the activists consider “a very small fine compared to the seriousness of the offence.” Under the Penal Code, according to her, sexual corruption convicts get “not less than 30-year jail terms, or a huge sum of cash penalty, or both. She was speaking during the ongoing commemorations of the “16 Day Forum” aimed at fighting against GBV -- that affects mainly females -- organised by Women Fund Tanzania (WFT), specifically for students in higher learning institutions. “Sexual corruption is like any other type of corruption … but this involves abuse to women. It is therefore a sensitive and serious matter… it should be handled under the country’s penal codes, not a formed organ to deal with corruption issues,” she said. Commenting on the GBV status within the country, the retired judge said legal authorities keep on receiving complains; a remarkable development given that in the past, people weren’t aware and didn’t know where to report the evil. However, Ms Engera said the problem was ‘still big’ and called for further awareness campaigns to serve as behaviour change among perpetrators as legal organs heighten their work at stamping it out . Trade Union Congress of Tanzania (TUCTA) Representative, Ms Rehema Lundaga supported the motion, reiterating that sexual abuse was still a serious problem at work places. She said females who get into office through sexual corruption do normally are soon turned ‘slaves’ since their bosses keep on asking for more ‘service’ (sexual corruption). “Whoever refuses to continue serving the boss does experiences dismissal, faces (repeated) threats or denied job promotion throughout the tenure of office of her boss … bosses in the private sectors are the worst perpetrators of sexual corruption,” she revealed. WFT project manager, Ms Rose Julius said the commemorations involved female students because sexual corruption in schools holds back their professional advancement. She said whoever offers sexual corruption does normally graduate “emptyheaded” due to dependency on readymade materials from her lecturer. “… What should the country expect from those empty-headed graduates?” She queried. She said anecdotal research had since demonstrated that sexual corruption was “an issue in colleges.”