He said his country will help to convince financial institution to enable the construction of the central line railway at international standards level. The envoy was speaking during her meeting with Finance and Planning Minister, Dr Philip Mpango. She said since the project needs huge amount of money estimated to be around 7.6bn/- US dollars, there is need to conduct a feasibility study to fulfil conditions for getting a loan from Exim Bank and other financial institutions in the country. “China would like to see this big project being improved to enable transportation of cargo and passengers,” she said. She added that her country is also waiting for completion of procedures between the two countries on the renovation of Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) in order to boost transportation services between Tanzania and Zambia. She said the project will also improve businesses in other neighbouring countries. The envoy applauded the fifth phase government for playing a big role in collecting tax, fighting corruption and proper utilisation of public fund. Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Mpango, said the government has agreed with China’s decision to conduct feasibility study so that the country could easily convince financial institutions to provide money for the much awaited mega project. “Already the project has started from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma, therefore, the intervention of China is warmly welcomed, because it will help to finish the project on time,” he said. The minister added that China has also shown interest to participate in planning and building of Dodoma town. He said Chinese experts have good experience in town planning. According to Dr Mpango, China has shown interest to construct infrastructure in the education sector, roads, Msalato International Airport, water system and modern buildings. On trade relations, the minister said China has promised to strengthen business ties with Tanzania. He said the current statistics show that Tanzanians import more products from China than exporting. “In 2016, Tanzania exported goods worth 460m/- US dollars while China imported goods worth 1.2bn/- US dollars, which was five times of Tanzanian goods sold in China,” he said. On tourism, the minister said the government has asked China to introduce a direct flight from Tanzania to China to attract tourists and boost the tourism sector. He added that China has also promised to participate in port construction projects. He said the ports that are set for construction include Tanga, Bagamoyo and Kigoma. Others include Dar es Salaam, Mtwara and in Lake Tanganyika.