According to Hassan, his parents cannot afford to buy the chair for him due to poverty. Since both his hands and feet are bent, he can hardly move on his own. The boy lives with his mother, step dad and grandmother. “My dream is to one day go to school just like any other kid,” said Hassan who is among many children who have been abandoned by their parents due to their physical disabilities. According to the grandmother, Lasina Hamisi, as a baby Hassan was born normally without any form of disability, but four months later he developed a strange illness. His hands and feet changed shape and started to bend. He can now barely walk or sit for a long time. The twelve year-old boy’s mother, Hawa Jafari, is also mentally challenged, leaving the grandmother with the responsibility of taking care both of them. She pointed out that the child’s biological father never married her daughter, but when the baby was born he bore responsibility of the child until when the boy developed the illness. A few years later the boy’s father passed away. “It took us by surprise when we started to sit him up the child would cry a lot due to great pain on his hands and feet. On several occasions, we consulted with a nurse who improvised an injection that made him feel better, but after sometime the situation resumed,” observed the grandmother. She further explained that the hands and feet started developing tumor like swellings and began to bend, saying that the situation has stayed like that ever since. His height is like that of a four-yearold babe. A year ago, the mother, Ms Jafari was married to one Abdulrahman Mahimu, who since then has assumed the responsibility of the child and mother. Mahimu tried making efforts to send the child to hospital but due to poverty, he could only manage to take him to the nearest health centre one kilometre from their village. As he was trying to intensify efforts to avail the step son to hospital, the boy sustained an accident and broke one of his legs. “If he had a wheel chair, the process of moving him from one point to another would be easy,” he noted. (For help please contact 0718379858)