This one is among four others queued for the second reading in the next ten days, during which backbench MPs will be fielding some 113 questions. According to Isles House Clerk, Ms Raya Issa Msellem, the House will also receive a report on the implementation of duties of the Public Leaders’ Ethics Commission duties, a private motion on the installation of infrastructures for disabled in buildings, residents, and leisure places. The proposed new Elections bill seeks to strengthen the management and supervision of elections within Zanzibar by removing the various defects of the existing legislation. The proposed bill is also aimed at strengthening voters’ registration and updating of its permanent Register by specifying, inter alia, the procedure for its public display, and allow the transfer of voter information from one place to another. Similarly, the bill aims at putting in place comprehensive legal provisions that differentiate between the general election, a by-election and categories of elections. The new Act will also lay down legal procedures on the nomination of candidates for all elections including the nomination of women’s special seats in the House of Representatives and Local Government Authorities. Furthermore, the bill aims at identifying the electoral offences and to determine the penalties associated with such offences, as well as, to set up the procedure for the management and issuance of permits for election observers and their responsibilities while in the country. Another bill slated for second reading is the Bill for an Act to Establish the Small and Medium Industrial Development Agency and to provide for the facilitation of promotion and development of Micro, Small and Medium Industries and other matters related and incidental thereto. The objective of the Bill is to enact the law for the establishment of an organ that is an Agency which is responsible for developing and supervising small and medium industries in Zanzibar. The House will also debate for the second time the Bill to enact law for the establishment of Civil Status Registration Agency, which will be tasked with facilitating the management of civil status registration. Also set for second reading is the bill for an Act to Amend Various Laws and make better provisions thereof. These include the Land Tenure Act, No. 12 of 1992, the Public Investment Act, No. 4 of 2002, the Public Service Act, No. 2 of 2011, the Zanzibar Electoral Commission Act, No. 1 of 2017 and the Certain Leaders Retirement Benefits, Act No. 5 of 2003, among others. As the House resumes in the earnest today, ordinary citizens will be following keenly the question and answer session to know how their Representatives bring to government’s attention a number of burning issues around their constituencies and importantly, the Executive’s response.