The Premier was speaking during the official opening of cotton stakeholders’ meeting in Shinyanga municipality. The meeting is set to make strategies that will improve cotton production in the country. Mr Majaliwa said cotton was among top cash crops in the country and that stakeholders must do everything in their power to regain the lost glory. He urged each stakeholder to come up with an idea that will help to boost cotton production in the country, especially at this time when the fifth government gears up for industrial driven economy. “The fifth phase government wants to see cotton production gaining its momentum like before, when it was called ‘white gold’, it is high time we revive this crop,” he said. According to Premier Majaliwa, the aim of the meeting was to bring together cotton farmers, stakeholders and the government to discuss various challenges that affect cotton farming and production. He said there must be means of helping and supporting individual farmers and councils that engage in cotton farming. The Premier said due to poor supervision and negligence by officials, cotton production dropped to about 300 kilogrammes. He said farmers were discouraged from proceeding with the farming. He added that the government is determined to revive the crop along with other fours crops in the country. He mentioned other crops as coffee, tobacco, cashew nuts and tea. “We have already started the discussion to improve production of some cash crops in the country, we know clearly that majority of Tanzanians’ economy is based on farming and the government gets foreign currency from selling cash crops abroad,” he said. Mr Majaliwa urged Sokoine University of Agriculture (SUA), TORSCI, TPRI and Ukiruguru Research Centre officials who were invited to the meeting to provide professional advice that will help to improve production in eleven regions engaging in cotton farming. He also ordered government leaders to closely make a follow up on the implementation of recommendations and suggestions that will be given during the meeting.