However, at the dawn of New Year, Orbit Securities analyst said the banking landscape poise to change when banks will start to use new account procedures International Financial Reporting Standard IFRS 9. “Adoption of IFRS 9 starting January 2018 is another area that could affect the banks’ bottom-line,” Orbit lead analyst said. IFSR 9 wants the banks, among other things, to recognise in the books loan impairment before the loss event occurred. This way banks have to set aside some fund out of their revenue hence reducing their profitability margin. President John Magufuli (pictured) last week in Dodoma when opening CRDB Bank branch told Bank of Tanzania to not bail out banks that failed to perform well rather to let them go under. Thus, according to Orbit Securities, the sector is going through a rapid changing operational environment which “is likely to affect their profitability”. The other change, Orbit Securities said, BoT plans to start using interest rate targeting policy coming March shifting from targeting monetary aggregate framework. “… [This also] is one of such changing landscape,” Orbit Securities said. BoT Financial Stability and Deepening Deputy Governor, Dr Bernard Kibesse said the policy is ready to come into use next March. “The interest rate to be targeted in the new framework will be the interbank cash market rate, which is the rate at which banks lend to each other,” Mr Kibesse said in a statement. Under the new framework the BoT will set and announce a policy rate and take actions in the interbank cash market to keep the interbank cash market rate as close as possible to the policy rate. “All policy actions will be taken in the market to keep the interbank cash market rate close to policy rate,” the Deputy Governor said. Interest rate based framework is a best practice across the world and its adoption by BoT was part of the monetary policy modernisation process currently being implemented by the central bank. In quarter three of this year the rate of nonperforming loans (NPLs) for most of the small and medium-size banks went up compared to the same quarter last year.