She denied the charge before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi. The magistrate granted bail to the accused person, a resident of Kisasi in Kampala, on condition of securing one reliable surety. He also ordered the seized money to act as bond, which would be confiscated if she jumped bail. The Magistrate adjourned the matter to January 18, for mention. The prosecution, led by Senior State Attorneys Awamu Mbangwa and Estazia Wilson, informed the court that investigations into the case have been completed. Before granting bail, the prosecution requested the court to issue conditions restricting movement of the accused person, who is a foreigner and working with SGA Company, a security firm in Uganda. However, advocate Emmanuel Safari, assisted by counsel Hudson Ndusyepo, objected to the prosecution’s request on grounds that his client will be bailed out by reliable sureties, who will ensure the accused person attends her trial on whatever date the court would fix. The advocate insisted that the amount of money, the subject of the trial, that have been considered as cash bail bond pending the trial, was so colossal and will no doubt compel the accused person to attend her trial without any failure. In the trial, Businge, who is an Invoicing Clerk, is charged with the offence of failure to disclose currency to the customs authority, which is contrary to Regulation 5(1) and (5) of the Anti-Money Laundering(Cross- Border Declaration of Currency and Bearer Negotiable Instruments) Regulations 2016. Such provision is read together with section 28B (1) (a) of the Anti-Money Laundering Act No. 12 of 2006, as amended by the Anti-Money Laundering (Amendment) ACT No. 1 of 2012. It is alleged by the prosecution that Businge committed the offence on December 11, this year, at Julius Nyerere International Airport (JNIA) within the city of Dar es Salaam. She allegedly entered the United Republic of Tanzania while in possession of one million US dollars, without declaring to the customs authority. The arraignment of the Ugandan comes a few days after President John Magufuli ordered the Bank of Tanzania (BoT) to tighten control on the movement of hard currency in the country. “I also want restrictions on the use of US dollars. As I speak, one million US dollar cash was confiscated at the airport in Dar es Salaam and there is no explanation on the movement of this money into the country. We have to be careful,” the Head of State is quoted as saying.