TFF President, Wallace Karia and the Managing Director of Macron Tanzania, who are the Company’s Agent Suleiman Karim, signed the two-year deal in Dar es Salaam yesterday, in which the federation will be receiving 150,000 Euros annually for operations, while 200,000 Euros is reserved for kits. TFF Marketing Manager, Aaron Nyanda, said kits supplied by the company were of a high quality and will completely improve the outlook of all the national teams – Taifa Stars, Ngorongoro Heroes, Serengeti Boys and Twiga Stars. Macron S.p.A. is an Italian sporting apparel company, based in Crespellano, the Metropolitan City of Bologna. Macron supplies teamwear for football, basketball, volleyball, baseball, rugby, handball, five a- side football and athletics. Marking his 120 days in office, TFF boss Karia promised to maintain radical changes at the federation and make the country’s football vibrant. He thinks that under his leadership, the federation was making progress in terms of attaining high standards of transparency and accountability. Karia explained his ambitious goal of forming a disciplined, accountable and transparent football body, which will in the end, turn around the country’s football fortunes. “Our target is to make Tanzania one of the football powerhouses, but this will demand a lot of sacrifice and hard work. “We have made several strides in the 120 days we have been in the office and have started implementing at least 71 per cent of priorities we had highlighted during my campaigns,” he said. He said he was pleased with the progress the federation has made in the last few days, but said much more work still needs to be done to completely reform the country’s football, which he feels was still in its gloomy days. The TFF boss said plans are on the advanced stages to implement the federation’s strategic plan, which will mainly be based on making the body’s Secretariat more accountable and propel youth development programmes. “By January, we will have a fully-fledged hired General Secretary and things will keep moving at the fast pace,” he said. Currently, Wilfred Kidao is Acting TFF General Secretary. Karia also praised the government for support, saying it has made it easy for the federation to win back the trust from the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and World football governing body FIFA. In fact, he said, FIFA, who had stopped funding TFF for the past few years for mismanagement, will start pouring in funds effective next year. According to Karia, TFF is entitled to receive 1.2m US dollars (about 3bn/) from FIFA annually, of which 750,000 US dollars is for development programmes and the remaining is for the federation’s operations. In another development, Karia has insisted that UK based coach Ammy Ninje was picked on merits to head Mainland team, Kilimanjaro Stars in the recently ended CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup in Kenya. The team failed miserably, picking only a point from its campaign in group A. After early exit from the tournament, many soccer fans questioned the selection of Ninje, with some believing that he was not the right candidate for the post. “Ninje is a qualified coach with rich CV… he holds UEFA coaching licence,” said Karia. Meanwhile, Karia has also directed organisers of all street level football tournaments ‘Ndondo Cup’ to make sure that they secure the federation’s approval before staging their respective events, effective next year. The move, Karia said, aims at not only formalising the tournament, but also ensure proper organisations are made to help the body and other organs to identify talents. “It’s time now we use these tournaments for talents identification, but we cannot fulfil that mission if the events were not properly organised,” he said.