This pace-setting equipment is currently being installed and a comprehensive staff training programme is underway to prepare the launch in March 2018. PET CT scan is an imaging test used to diagnose diseases, plan treatment, to find out how a condition is progressing and to see how effective treatment is on the disease, while a cyclotron is a type of compact particle accelerator used to produce small quantities of radioactive isotopes, a substance required for the PET imaging. “Aga Khan University Hospital continues to be at the front of the fight against non-communicable diseases through evidence-based medicine backed by research, a team-based approach and modern technology,” said Shawn Bolouki, Chief Executive Officer. He added, “Patients will no longer have to travel to India or abroad to get this service, as it will be available right here in Nairobi. The technology was acquired at an approximate cost of 6 million US Dollars (equivalent to Ksh 600M) and will revolutionise diagnostics and treatment in the region.” Chair, Department of Radiology at Aga Khan University Hospital, Professor Sudhir Vinayak, said while an MRI and CT scan shows how a particular part of the body looks, a PET/ CT scan can reveal how it is functioning. “This is an important aspect for cardiologists and cardiac surgeons too as it enable them to detect which parts of the heart have been damaged or scarred. It can also help identify blood and oxygen circulation problems in the heart; this combined technology will change diagnostic medicine in the region,” he noted. The equipment will enable doctors to identify health threats at the cell-level thus giving them the best view and time of treatment for complex diseases such as cancer and heart diseases, brain and other central nervous system problems, thereby improving treatment outcomes. Section Head Medical Oncology at AKUH, Dr Asim Jamal, said information generated from PET CT scans enables oncologists to make better treatment and follow up plans for cancer patients. In certain cancer situations, this information is critical in making decisions regarding treatment options including surgery, radiation therapy and chemotherapy. “This technology can reveal the presence and stage of cancer, including whether and where the cancer has spread to and help doctors decide on treatment. PET/CT also give us an indication of how well chemotherapy is working and can detect a recurring tumour sooner than any other diagnostic modalities,” said Dr Jamal. PET/CT scan technology is also critical in neurosciences especially in the diagnosis of neurological conditions such as dementia and epilepsy. “PET/CT services will be available as an outpatient procedure, unless the patient is already admitted to the hospital and lasts for at most 30 minutes,” Professor Vinayak concluded. The acquisition of this highly specialised system by Aga Khan University Hospital, the only Joint Commission International accredited hospital in Kenya, reaffirms its premier status as the leading provider of quality clinical care, teaching and research in sub-Saharan Africa.