Countries that embrace new technological developments and deal with risks strategically are more likely to prosper and achieve inclusive growth. However, those who do not foster an environment in which digital technologies can flourish are likely to fall behind. They run the risk of facing increasing inequality and greater chances of economic divisions. Investment by the telecommunications industry in technology and interoperability has underpinned an immense shift in information and capital flows through the global economy. Total mobile data traffic has grown 4,000 times over the past 10 years and 400 million times over the past 15 years. This has contributed to an unprecedented level of economic activity: global flows of goods, services and finance, which grew 1.5 times to $26 trillion in the two decades between 1990 and 2012, could triple from to more than $80 trillion in 2025. As the impact of the Fourth Industrial Revolution is felt more widely, the importance of telecommunications as an enabler of digitalisation will only increase. As companies require greater access to cloud and mobile services, annual data flows are forecast to reach 44 trillion gigabytes by 2020, 10 times higher than in 2013. Reliable and secure connectivity will be critical for the operation of new technologies such as drones and autonomous vehicles. Bearing this mind, it is no wonder that Tanzania’s digital lifestyle company, Tigo Tanzania has had its sights on digital transformation for the good of the sector. Over the years, apart from being the telecom has brought ‘firsts’ to its customers, it has continually expanded its network and introduced numerous campaigns to bring better quality to its products. In its quest to emphasise its commitment to putting its customers first, Tigo Tanzania, revisiting its footprint in the country that spans over two decades, has revealed several milestones that have over the years transformed the telecom company into the fastest growing in the local mobile telephony market. In a campaign dubbed, ‘TUMEKUSOMA’, loosely translated in Kiswahili, as ‘We Understand You’, Tigo’s digital transformational journey has been that of promptly responding to customer demands, the result of which has led to company registering over 11 million subscribers to date and over 6 million mobile money accounts. “TUMEKUSOMA Campaign entails Tigo’s transformational journey since its inception, emphasising the company’s philosophy of understanding its customers and providing better, simplified products and services that address the needs of consumers everywhere. Ours has been mainly a customercentric journey; a continuation of Tigo’s commitment to understand the intrinsic needs of our customers and respond to these needs with simple and functional solutions that improve their digital experience”, said Tigo’s Managing Director, Simon Karikari at a media briefing in Dar es salaam, Tanzania’s Commercial Capital City. Reminiscing Tigo’s nostalgic trail of successes since it was established in Tanzania in 1994, Karikari particularly identified the company’s network quality and resilience as some of the factors that have let to its unfettered growth. “Tigo’s philosophy of innovation and dynamism in addressing the needs of our customers and our eagerness to reach our customers wherever they are across the country and listening to our customers’ needs and demands and promptly addressing them--has seen our company grow to be the market leader in digital transformation, revolutionising the local telecommunications market”, Karikari added. But it’s Tigo’s pioneering role in innovation that sets it apart from the rest of players in the telecoms market. Tigo prides itself as having played, and continues to play a pacesetter role in innovating products and services that have gained traction in the country, cementing customers’ unflinching loyalty to the company. Enumerating some of Tigo’s ‘firsts’, Karikari noted: “Tigo was the first telecommunications company to market airtime bundles; the first telecommunications company in Tanzania to market entry level smartphones; the first telecommunications company to launch free Facebook in Swahili; the first telecommunications company to launch smartphones in Swahili – all these achievements increased digital inclusion for a vast majority of Tanzanian’s who were previously not part of the digital revolution. Others are the first telecommunications company in Tanzania and East Africa to offer cross border mobile money transfer services with currency conversion, and the first to share profits arising from its Tigopesa (Tigo’s mobile financial transfer service) business by way of quarterly dividends”. Suffice it say, Tigopesa has contributed to a huge extent in driving financial inclusion in the country, a factor that has undoubtedly played a part in stimulating the local financial sector. Granted, with over 80,000 merchants available in every corner of the country, transacting upwards of 1.481bn/- every month, Tigopesa indisputably speaks to financial inclusion which also is a boon to national economy. Alongside TUMEKUSOMA Campaign, Tigo has also launched a new menu and USSD code, (*147*00#) slowly phasing out the current one (*148*00#)-a change which, according to Karikari, addresses the customer’s needs for an improved network, better, simplified services and presence in every corner of the country while giving them huge bonuses with every transition they carry out-- inviting more customers to join the telecom company in the exciting journey of digital lifestyle transformation in Tanzania. He also points out the constant upgrade of Tigo’s network infrastructure through modernisation and optimisation and the launch of Tigo 4G LTE that is now being enjoyed by customers in 23 cities across the country- together with tailored-made business services (Business to Business) services-as major drivers to the company’s meteoric growth. “Through Tigo Business to Business (B2B), Tigo is now offering innovative business solutions that are tailored to suit individual customers. Tigo B2B is a product portfolio that specifically targets businesses and aims to enhance how organisations of all sizes operate. It offers tailor-made solutions for a diverse range of sectors varying from; small, medium and large businesses, government departments and agencies, development organisations, financial institutions, the extractive industry, manufacturers, the service sector, distributors and other related industries- providing them with the needed flexibility to operate efficiently and prosper across the country and beyond”, said Karikari. Noting that the mobile telecoms industry’s main goal is to connect ‘everyone and everything for a better future, Karikari added that the industry’s revolution was pegged on three main pillars: inclusion, innovation and influencing a better future- factors that drive transformation in the telecoms sector, emphasising that operators have a collective responsibility to influence inclusion for all in the digital realm. “Tigo is also determined to commit all its resources to ensure that our customers receive world-class services, guaranteeing efficient, real-time response to their needs. Through innovation and infrastructure development, we continue to demonstrate our commitment in promoting digital lifestyle transformation and leadership in delivering cutting-edge technology and innovation to our customers” Karikari said.