In-form Heroes put up another spirited fight against the ten-man Uganda Cranes at Moi Sports Complex in Kisumu on Friday and deservedly won the encounter 2-1, to set up a final clash against hosts Kenya Harambee Stars. The ‘Cranes’ of Uganda who were key favourites to defend the trophy could not get breathing space from the Isles side, who were classified as underdogs prior to the battle. Uganda Cranes are the most successful team in the annual tournament with 14 titles to their name. Zanzibar Heroes Head Coach Hemed Suleiman Ally ‘Morocco’ has heaped praise on his youthful team after seeing off defending champions Uganda Cranes. “‘I want to thank God first, then my players for the effort that they have put in to see us reach the final. It gives us great joy to finally reach the final after such a long time,”’ said Morocco, evidently elated at the prospect of bagging a title they last won in 1995. While his opposite number Moses Basena reveals that he never imagined Zanzibar Heroes would beat them, Morocco on his part insisted theirs is a result of proper planning that found favour with how the match eventually panned out. “It was a tough match to play against the defending champions but we had planned to win. Had our game plan and I thank God it worked well for us. Going by the way we played, we deserved to win,” he added. Kenya had dispatched off a stubborn Burundi side in the first semi-final a day before at the same venue so that means fans will be treated to a second serving of two matches, Cranes meet Burundi with whom they were in Group B for the third place-playoffs, while Harambee Stars of Kenya take on their Group A counterparts Zanzibar in the final. Coach Morocco while admitting to today’s encounter being tough, but after wading through such a tormentous path to the final, he is confident of victory over the hosts Kenya. “It’s going to be another tough match against Kenya today. They have a good team and we respect them. They are the hosts but we have come to compete and we are going to fight till the last drop of our sweat. No one expected us to reach where we are now. We are ready for any opponent and I believe we are capable of beating Kenya,” said Morocco. Meanwhile, Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein has praised Zanzibar Heroes for booking a final berth in the ongoing CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup scheduled for today. In enthusiastic mood, Shein congratulated the players, coaches for excellent performance, determination in the last Friday’s sweet semi-final win against the then defending champions Uganda Cranes. Minister for Sports, Rashid Ali Juma joined the Isles’ President in lauding the Heroes. “Big rewards await the players upon their return, and if they win the Sunday (today) final against Kenya, the prizes will double,” he said. Both Shein and the Minister appealed to Tanzanians to pray for ‘Zanzibar Heroes’ because their victory is a honour for the country, which has in recent years not been performing well in the international competitions. On Friday when Zanzibar beat Uganda, some streets in the Stone Town were filled with youth celebrating the victory, leading to short-term trafficjam.