Amb. Iddi made the call as a guest of honour at Maulid Baraza celebrations observed to mark the birth of Prophet Muhammad, held nationally in Ruangwa District, Lindi Region. The celebrations were also accompanied by the launch of the peace committee in Ruangwa District. “We have the responsibility as Muslims to follow the teachings of our Prophet by not engaging ourselves in corruption, for it’s also an act of worship ... the Prophet has emphasised in his teachings that a person who gives, receives and perform in writing bribe has been cursed against the face of God,” said Amb. Iddi. He observed that corruption has over the years deprived the majority of Tanzanians from obtaining proper basic needs such as health, education, among others. Many have witnessed the unearthing of over the billions of shillings that were spent on paying ghost workers by few unscrupulous officials. “The decrease in integrity and honesty prompted President John Magufuli as he assumed power to launch the fight against corruption in the country,” said the Second VP. He also revealed that the evils of corruption are not only emphasised in Islam, but also in the teachings of other religions, the fight shouldtherefore, be intensified to support Dr Magufuli against the vice. He further urged Muslims to engage in decent work and refrain from illegal dealings as they lead to embezzlement and other forms of abuse. He urged believers to be faithful in marriage, to protect their families from deadly diseases such as HIV and AIDS and unnecessary suffering. Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa acknowledged the good work of Mufti Abubakar Zubeir for his two years’ period since he was appointed as Chief Sheikh. “I congratulate you for the transformations you have carried during the two years’ session, particularly in initiating the celebrations to be carried out in different parts of the country, so that the message can reach the wider majority,” noted the PM. He further applauded the Sheikh for selecting this year’s theme “Education, Economics and Development are the priorities of Muslims,” as it helps the wider community to reflect and act as guidance towards change. He also delivered greetings from the President who was closely following through the celebrations from the previous night’s events to those of yesterday. The event was also attended by PM’s wife, Ms Mary Majaliwa, other government leaders and several Members of Parliament (MPs).