In the country, the regulation regarding consumer contracts was passed in 2014 and many traders and service providers are yet to submit the forms to Fair Competition Commission (FCC) for review. FCC acting Director General, Dr John Mduma, said yesterday that the directive was issued based on the Standard Form Consumer Contracts Regulations of 2014. “Traders and service providers are supposed to bring contracts to FCC so that we can go through them and make required changes before taking them to the market, this will help to bring fairness in doing business,” Dr Mduma said. Under the regulation, traders and service providers are required to submit contracts they prepare for consumers so that FCC scrutinise them before approval. The main idea of the consumer contract is to fairness and equality in providing services in the country. Dr Mduma said traders and service providers including telecom, financial institutions, organisations and insurance companies to submit their contract before March 1, next year. According to Dr Mduma, FCC is going through contracts basically to protect consumers against exploitative terms in the contracts, which allow various companies to dodge from taking responsibilities. Meanwhile, the FCC acting chief added that starting February 2018, FCC will launch a special operation against goods that do not indicate their countries of origin. He said FCC is doing everything in its powers to ensure education on consuming quality products. Dr Mduma said the law requires all products to carry names of the countries where they are being manufactured, names of the manufacturers and their addresses. This information is important since they enable authorities to take appropriate measures against manufacturers. “We have increased effort on providing education on this area to enable traders and all companies to understand the importance of marking products to show the country of their origin,” he noted. He said FCC is set to use mass media and all other means to reach people for education on fair competition related matters.