Shock wave still hovers around Msimbazi Street, after Green Warriors pulled off the shock at the Azam’s Chamazi Complex, to knock out defending champions 4-3 on penalties. News on Omog’s sacking came late yesterday, shortly after businessman, Mohammed Dewji, who has recently acquired 49 per cent of the club shares, openly criticised the tactician. Dewji tweeted that he was saddened and humiliated by the results. He said much as he has yet to acquire leadership mandate at the club and although he has no powers to sack the coach, he would wish to see the Cameroon tactician dismissed. “As a diehard fan and member of Simba SC, I with all due respect request Omog to step down,” said Dewji. Early this month, Dewji won a 20bn/- take-over bid to become among majority shareholders, while the remaining 51 per cent of the stakes will be owned by other club members. And according to a statement released late yesterday by Simba’s Communication Officer, Haji Manara, the club has reached mutual agreement with Omog to step down. “We have reached a mutual agreement with Omog to part ways…we wish him best of luck in career elsewhere,” said Manara, adding that Assistant Coach, Burundian Masoud Djuma will be in charge of the team. He further said that the squad will continue with training tomorrow (today) and will take a short rest on Christmas Day (tomorrow), before resuming training on Boxing Day. He said Simba will then depart for Mtwara to face Ndanda FC in the Mainland Premier League encounter next weekend. Manara used the opportunity to apologise to Simba fans and members following the embarrassing defeat. Defeat against Second Division side left many Simba fans fuming. After the match, Manara was livid, saying “It is a big shame, embarrassment and intolerable…we have really upset our fans.” Former Simba striker and team manager, Musa Hassan ‘Mgosi’ was equally furious, saying the club was heading for the worst days if shortcomings that were evident on Friday will not be addressed quickly. He promised to visit “Simba lost fair and square. I felt that the performance was far too casual, players just strolling around expecting an easy night,” complained ‘Mgosi’. The hosts Green Warriors showed little respect to one of the most expensively assembled sides in history. Simba is said to have spent 1.3bn/- to assemble its squad this season. Prior to the match, Green Warriors Secretary General Daniel Mbwana, warned Simba, saying they should underrate them at their own peril. He said they will upset Simba and proceed into the next stage of the competition. And they lived to their expectations. The Army side finished the game with one man short as Adam Said was red-carded, got the opener in 43rd minute of the first half through their hit-man Hussein Bunu, whose header was too powerful for Simba’s keeper Aishi Manula to deny it from going behind his net. However, Joseph Omog’s side levelled matters in 53rd minute of the last segment, thanks to John Bocco’s expertly taken spot kick, which helped to put back his side into the battle. With the score line at 1-1, the match balanced and could have gone each way but in the end, penalties had to be taken to separate boys from men. Simba’s midfielder Jonas Mkude saw his kick hitting the left bar, while Mohammed Hussein’s strike was smartly saved by Warriors custodian Shaabani Dihile, who stood firm in between his posts throughout the classic game. He recalled his experience when he was a goal stopper for Taifa Stars squad, which competed in Africa Nations championship (CHAN) finals in Ivory Coast in 2009. The Msimbazi based giants’ goalie Manula saved Zuakuu Mgala’s shot while George Ossey’s volley missed the target. Cecil Efram, Amir Hajji, Juma Mdingi and Iddi Nyambi converted their kicks for the Warriors. The final whistle sparked jubilant celebrations among the Green Warriors players and fans. In other ASFC results from Friday matches in which four games ended in penalties, Polisi Dar were the massive winners after defeating Mgambo JKT 5-0 at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam, Mufindi United lost 2-3 from Pamba in post-match penalties while Kariakoo Lindi demolished Transit Camp 6-5 also in penalties played at Ilulu in Lindi. Singida United defeated Bodaboda FC 2-0 at Namfua Stadium in Singida, Biashara FC cruised into the next round of the competition thanks to a 1-0 victory over Mawezi Market held at Karume ground in Musoma while Ruvu Shooting smashed Madini FC 4-1at Mabatini, Coast Region. Stand United got the better of AFC with a 3-0 post match penalty triumph held at Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga.