However, to achieve this goal the government needs to ensure there is sufficient skilled labour force that will help to drive economic development activities, thus attainment of national goals. As the government strive to establish industries and build up industrial based economy, the Vocational Education and Training Authority (VETA) is looking forward to increase the vocational training centres from 29 to 41 in 2019. Skilled labour force is a crucial aspect for it is that ensures efficiency and productivity in industries. With skills, people can also competently, confidently and easily enter the formal sector through selfemployment or wage employment. It is the skilled citizens who can also be able to establish small industries in their localities; either as individuals or in groups. Of crucial importance is the group with vocational skills for it is that which comprises of people with hands-on skills to perform the real job in the industries. Last week, the Minister for Education, Science, Technology and Vocational Training, Prof Joyce Ndalichako said her ministry, which oversee VETA activities is focusing at ensuring the government goals to develop an industrial economy is becoming successful. She said the country needs skilled personnel to participate in various economic activities and that VETA is set to train more people in various areas. She said the government through her Ministry is looking forward to construct more VETA centres in various regions, and that the move focuses at training more Tanzanians so that they can be part and parcel of the industrial business. The statement released by VETA recently said it has been setting strategies to ensure wide scope and quality provision of vocational education and training. The ultimate goal is to ensure that every ‘mwananchi’ who needs vocational training has an opportunity to receive it. The move to increase VETA training centres is in line with the seating government goals, and basically supports the efforts by training people who will be able to participate in industrial based activities. It has been established that the authority has directed focus and resources in construction of new vocational training centres, rehabilitation of the existing ones and construction and modernisation of training workshops. Currently there are more than 20 projects for construction, rehabilitation and modernisation of workshops. Among the projects are construction of four (5) new Regional Vocational Training and Service Centres in the regions of Rukwa, Geita, Simiyu, Kagera and Njombe. Also, construction of six district training centres in Ukerewe, Nyasa, Namtumbo, Kilindi, Chunya, Chato, and rehabilitation of two districts vocational training centres of Karagwe and Korogwe. “The projects are at different stages ranging from identification of consultancies, tender advertisement, contract signing and commencement of work,” reads part of the statement. Recently, the authority has completed the rehabilitation of Busokelo vocational training centre in Mbeya, which started enrolment of trainees in March, 2017, and complete rehabilitation of Nkowe vocational training centre in Ruangwa, Lindi region. On the construction and modernisation of workshops, it has been explained that the authority is finalising the construction of a modern carpentry workshop at VETA Dodoma with the construction stage now at 90 per cent. “There is also construction of automotive and carpentry workshops at VETA Kihonda in Morogoro which are also at final stages; and the workshop for industrial electricity at VETA Mwanza, which is at a roofing stage,” reads the statement. Furthermore, the Authority has procured workshop equipment and learning facilities for VETA Kihonda, VETA Arusha (Oljoro), Kasulu vocational training centre, VETA Mbeya and the Morogoro Vocational Teachers Training College (MVTTC). The authority also plans to procure equipment and facilities for VETA Singida, VETA Iringa, and VETA Dodoma. Moreover, the authority is looking forward to assess and certify 4000 apprentices through its Recognition of Prior Learning programme by 2019. The authority also plans to partner with at least 50 companies through the Skills Enhancement Programme (SEP) which targets on upgrading skills of employees in the formal sector and to train 3000 entrepreneurs through its Integrated Training for Entrepreneurship Promotion (INTEP), which focus on improving skills and businesses of the players in the informal sector. Speaking during official closing of the second industrial exhibitions, which took place at Mwalimu Nyerere grounds along Kilwa road last month, Deputy Minister for Industries, Trade and Investment Ms Manyanya said Tanzania is heading to industrialization and that every person is invited to participate in the sector. The Deputy Minister said the establishing small scale industries do not need big capital. She said skills that are obtained from different colleges including VETA are the basic capital for establishing small industries. The Deputy Minister added that in two years at least 3000 industries have been established across the country. According to the industrial census of 2013 of which results were released in 2016 there are total of industries in the country is 49,243 in the country. According to Ms Manyanya, by 2020, the industrial sector is expected to produce 40 per cent of employment in the country. “We expect industrialization to bring major changes in the agriculture, livestock sectors and many other areas,” she noted.