They are battling for six latrines, of which three are for 515 girls and the remaining three are for 450 boys. By September this year, the school which is located approximately a kilometer from Morogoro- Dodoma road had a total of 965. Whereas the National School Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (SWASH) guidelines developed in 2016 by the Tanzanian government and stakeholders states that one latrine should be used by not more than 20 girls at a ratio of 1:20 and 25 boys per single latrine at a ratio of 1:25, the situation at Muungano Primary School is different. Due to the shortage of latrines, at Muungano, 171 girls are sharing one latrine at a ratio of 1:171, while 150 boys are using one latrine at a ratio of 1:150. Approximately a two hour ride on motorcycle taxi famously known as bodaboda from Turiani Subversion Office in Mvomero District is Magunga Primary School. This was among the 10 poorest performing schools in the Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLE) in 2016, according to National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA). “When the school’s toilet collapsed, pupils were on holiday. We were lucky that an accident occurred when pupils were in their respective homes,” says Magunga Primary School head teacher, Francis Malinda. After the tragedy, which occurred almost three years ago, the school which is located at Magunga village, two temporary facilities with two latrines each was built for 419 pupils. The floor of the latrines is made up of wood, covered by soil, while the rest of the parts are covered with iron sheets. Before this year’s Standard VII leaving examinations, the school data shows that 116 girls were sharing one latrine while approximately 94 boys were using one latrine. Affecting learning Prisca Jonas is a Standard III pupil at Lumba Chini at Singisa Ward in Morogoro District Council in Morogoro Region. While Teacher Johnson Mwande is teaching, she is asking for permission to go to the toilet since she didn’t manage to access it during break time. She is among 115 girls, at Lumba Chini, who are using one latrine since the school has only two latrines for 229 girls and other two for 370 boys; meaning that 185 male pupils are using a single latrine. Due to the shortage of latrines, teacher Johnson Mwande says, pupils do not concentrate enough in classes since they constantly keep on asking for permission to go outside. According to him, most of those who ask for permission during the class hours are the ones who fail to access the toilets during break “It is difficult to deny them permission because we know the challenges of their learning environment,” the teacher adds. Lumba Chini Primary School teacher Emmanuel Kunambi says the problem has been communicated to the village government, ward and district levels. “When school inspectors visited our school, they learnt of the problem,” he adds. Prisca Jonas and Arnold Josam, standard four pupils say that during break time, pupils queue outside the toilet but “since everyone at that time is in a hurry to use the facility, some of us decide to go to the nearby bushes, famously known as ‘Ofisi ndogo’ instead of waiting in the queue.” Ms Neema Makundi, Prisca and Arnold’s teacher, says the shortage of latrines make pupils lose concentration as they always ask for permission to go outside to attend to the call of nature. Ms Neema says pupils are at high risk of getting communicable diseases since majority go around the bush due to shortage of latrines. Hand washing facilities To avoid communicable diseases among the pupils at schools, SWASH guidelines require schools to have at least one (1) hand washing water point for 100 pupils. Schools visited, except Muungano, have no such facilities. Observation conducted established that despite shortage of latrines, a situation that forces some pupils to seek refuge in nearby bushes, they still enter the classrooms with dirty hands due to lack of hand washing points. Contacted for comment, a Dar es Salaam based Medical Doctor, Neema Kimaro, says pupils of Magunga, Lumba Chini, Muungano and other primary schools face critical shortage of latrines. She says such situation poses high health risks to the pupils as majority are likely to contract communicable diseases, including diarrhea. “Pupils who can’t access toilets or decide not to attend the call of nature due to shortage of latrines are likely to get other diseases such as Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) and other infectious diseases in the bowels. This is caused by holding waste even when the urge to empty it emerges,” she said. Contributing for Development Julita Venance, the school head teacher says she presented the challenges facing her school to the school committee and village government and she was told that the Ward had insufficient fund, as priority was to build more classrooms. While pupils were suffering due to the shortage of latrines, Magole ward councilor, Mr Halfan Kaunda confirmed that their priority was to build classrooms. “We are facing a lot of challenges. For instance, here we have opted to start building classrooms because we have only five classrooms for nearly 1,000 pupils. Once we are done with classroom construction we will now throw our weight into constructing toilets.” says Mr Kaunda. Magunga Village Chairman, Mr Daniel Munga says villagers volunteered to dig one pit latrine but the construction work was not done due to poor contributions from villagers after they failed to record good harvest, a source of finance for the villagers. Anna Mgela, the Singisa ward Councilor says she mobilized residents to make bricks for classrooms and latrines. According to her, the problem was shared with the district council, but a poor contribution from citizens was a stumbling block after they failed to reach 20 per cent of total costs of the project. Donald Pambe, Morogoro Rural District Council Education Officer (Primary School), said after poor performance of some schools in 2016, inspectors visited them to identify the challenges that led to poor results. He said among other factors that featured in the report was poor school infrastructures. Acting Mvomero District Council Director, Mr Tufene Mwaikenda says the local government was sensitizing Wananchi to contribute 20 per cent of school infrastructure and council would top up the remaining part. While village leaders were claiming that wananchi’s low incomes were affecting the construction of the school infrastructures, Morogoro Regional Commissioner, Dr Stephen Kebwe, insisted that the government was encouraging citizens to contribute 20 per cent of total cost of school infrastructure, including latrines, with the remaining 80 per cent being footed by the respective councils. Retaining pupils in school Teachers Neema and Mwande for Magunga and Lumba Chini primary schools say children were wasting much time in bushes or in queues seeking toilet services. Some stayed at home much longer, and missing classes upon contracting preventable communicable diseases like diarrhea. However, United Nation International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF)’s websites states that children spend a significant amount of time in and around their schools, if there are adequate water and sanitation facilities. It’s vice versa, according to UNICEF, school attendance, retention and educational performance will be affected since children are not attending school because of suffering from preventable diseases. The UN agency suggests that as Tanzania is experiencing rapid increase of school enrollment due to abolition of school fees, the focus should, however, be put on improving school environments.