However, she waited until her children had grown-up into young adults before pursuing her career in Art. Being a lover of Secular and Gospel music means she performs both forms, when given the opportunity and keep her hands busy designing her own garments and accessories for both on and off-stage. When the opportunity presents itself, she can be seen performing music with more of a traditional flavour. However, on another occasion she can be found getting into some “New Generation” music. It’s all music to her and as such deserves her time and participation. In a recent conversation she told the ‘Daily News’ that she gets a lot of joy singing in different languages. “It gives me pleasure to know that someone can get the message in music through their language,” she maintains. Her efforts are not restricted to music neither, for this mother of three, also acts and writes scripts. Actually, a short film – “Nani Kama Mama” – in which she plays the role of a mother going through extreme difficulties in life, was screened at last year’s Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIFF). The making of this film was financially supported by the local chapter of the Goethe Institute and included taking four out of the small team of actors, Imelder included, to make another short film – “Togetherness” – in Germany, earlier this year. “We wrote a script, within the 10 days, chose a location and shot the film, which was screened, while there,” she said. However, everything about this lady is not concentrated on herself. All that life has taught her, together with what she gained when studying the Performing Arts (PA), at the Bagamoyo Institute of Arts (TaSUBa), she says now come useful when advising local youth towards being self-motivated and looking for ways to use their time productively. Her aim, she says is to educate members of society into acknowledging their antistatic skills, which can be used to improve themselves and their communities. She maintains it is only from using a particular skill that one gets to realise there are others. Within this quest, she has an unapologetic leniency towards helping women realise they have much greater potentials than just staying in the home can offer. “I’m hopping that with my singing and acting I’ll come in contact with other people, who I’ll be able to help in one way or another,” she said. To elaborate further, as to what this “helping themselves” means, she talked about getting involved in small enterprises, such as cooking various foods like mandazi, chapati and chips. These activities, she maintains help bring a turn-over even when nothing may be coming in from one’s Art. That way, life goes on. In the case of Zuhuru Seng’enge a.k.a. “The African Lioness”, her journey as a poet and writer started immediately after she graduated from the University of Dar es Salaam (UDSM), two years ago, with her BA in Education. Over the last two years she has participated in several local and international literary, social cultural and Art events. She has also managed to establish herself as a performance lyricist, freelancer for writing, editing, translating, voice-over, performing, presenting and organising services. That is not to mention sitting as founder and director of the “Conscious Poetry Band”, together with co-founder of “POETRY 255 Group”, which organises monthly poetry and Arts nights called “For Better Or Verse”. Her first narrative poetry - “LESEDI” - has been featured in an African Writers Trust Anthology for East African Writers titled, “Moonscapes”, which was launched in Kampala, Uganda September 23 last year. This was after she had a successful release her poetry Compact Disc (CD), “Warrior Unleashed” on July 15 last year. “The attraction to poetry came from an early life of reading; a culture that started at home. My mother used to read stories for me but when I stumbled upon poetry books, the language just attracted me and made me want to write something of the same, to entice people with words,” she said. It was from there onwards, fuelled by her own initiative that she started to read more and more about poetry and poets, while continuing writing until 2013, when she started performing. Now this young lady talks about dreaming to have her own publishing firm, one day, only focussing on poets and poetry, which is said to be the hardest genre to be published in literature, worldwide. Added to this, having her own theatre, which performers could rent and herself perform, at an entrance fee of-course, is very much a desire. Getting the opportunity to perform, at the local French embassy on a number of occasions, towards the end of this year, she says is half way to performing in France. According to this “African Lioness”, whose inspiration comes from fellow writers both here and outside of the country, her message is general and doesn’t dwell on one topic. As long as it motivates, uplifts, inspires and introduces something new to the listener or reader, she’s satisfied.