Ms Makinda said in Dar es Salaam yesterday that foul language and rudeness had remained distinctive problems which were undermining government efforts to improve service delivery in the health sector. “When we promote patriotism in Tanzania, it should begin in our hospitals through generosity and improvement in service provision. Foul mouths among our health workers are our poison,” she said when she was opening the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) meeting with accredited medical service providers. Ms Makinda who is the Chairperson of (NHIF) Board of Directors said it was disheartening to learn that some health service providers had thrown decorum and decency to the wind and were instead exhibiting lack of human feelings. She said awareness on the importance of national health insurance had increased among people and that was why many citizens were joining the fund. The rapid increase of the number of beneficiaries meant that the fund and service providers need to be more innovative in improving the quality of service delivery, she said. She added that studies show majority of patients in hospitals, dispensaries and health centres were NHIC beneficiaries, which was an indication that awareness campaign on the importance of health insurance had paid off. There is a need to come up with a strategy for improving service provision now that majority of patients are NHIF beneficiaries, she said. Earlier, NHIF Director General, Bernard Konga said the fund was striving to reduce the number of days reviewing claims from the current 30 to 14 as instructed by the Board of Directors. “The board had directed us to focus on 14 days. We haven’t reached there but we are working hard to reach there,” he said in his welcoming speech. He added that special loans for medical kits and medicines to accredited medical service providers had been reintroduced after they were suspended last year. He said currently the fund was providing services to 6,000 centres in government, private sector and religious institutions.