Preparations for this big day included purchases of new clothing -- mainly for children and decorative trinkets that include lights, toys, greetings cards, special Christmas trees and Christmas song CDs to colour the festivities. Some houses got a new coat of paint. Unfortunately, greedy business people have hiked the prices of everything that goes with Christmas, including the prices of goats, sheep, chicken and ducks. Holiday makers prefer to eat tasty foods at this time. Foods like “pilau” and roasted goat meat are common. Reports that bus fares for passengers travelling from Dar es Salaam to Moshi for Christmas and New Year celebrations jumped to 50,000/- on the black market. Now, this is a stab in the back for holiday makers. It is disgusting, to say the least. At Ubungo bus terminal and other parts of the Dar es Salaam city some passengers had to cough up to 50,000/- behind closed doors for a single trip by greedy racketeers. This shows the greed some bus owners and traders assume at this time of the year. There are reports that a kilo of rice sells at between 2,800 and 3,000/-, while a kilo of meat sells at between 7,000/- and 8,000/- in some parts of Dar es Salaam. This jack up of prices has inconvenienced some merry makers greatly. Further experience has shown that some people overspend during Christmas and plunge into a long spell of virtual poverty during January. It would be remiss not to point out here that road accidents increase sharply during the festive season because of drunken driving or even dare-devil use of roads and streets. Suddenly, overdrinking becomes fashionable and the result is careless driving, drunken brawls and fist-fights. These are cardinal sins that should not prevail. Revelers should enjoy their holiday bash peacefully. The Police Force should strengthen its patrols on roads and streets and at festival sights such as beaches, dance halls, bars and restaurants. Religious leaders should rail against unruly behaviour and call for respect for the cannons of the Church during the festival. Too many youths, especially young women, move around in skin tights that reveal the geography of their bodies in a dismaying manner. Religious leaders and, indeed, most elders resent the way young people dress and see their conduct as wicked. Some youths mouth obscenities with complete abandon. This should not happen during Christmas. Everyone should dress decently. This is not the right moment of skin tights and “mlegezo.” We wish everyone a merry Christmas and a happy New Year.