Addressing a public rally at Kirando Village along the shore of Lake Tanganyika in Nkasi District in Rukwa Region over the weekend, he said the contractor was not competent enough to manage the project valued at over 7.4bn/-, and pump water from Lake Tanganyika to the residents of Katongolo, Itete, Masolo, Mtakuja, Kamwanda, Chongo, Katete and Kirando, all estimated to have 52,287 people. In another development, he directed Nkasi District Acting Executive Director (DED), Mr Missana Kwangura, to take the District Water Engineer, Eric Namakonde, who was conspicuously missing in a working tour to task for allegedly being absent from duty for his Christmas and New Year festivities. He said Eng Namakonde was aware that Kamawanda Water Project was facing some challenges including poor delivery and bribery without taking any tangible action. Mr Aweso warned dishonest senior officials in his ministry, who have been colluding with deceitful contractors to sabotage water projects in the country that their days are numbers. “Contractors who have been awarded tenders to construct water projects… some are unqualified, but were favoured by some dishonest officials in my ministry…because it is impossible to believe that Kamwanda Water Project was valued to cost 605,621,321.80, but now it has increased to over 7.4bn/,” he pointed out. He said such dishonesty forced also the President’s Office Regional Administration and Local Government (Tamisemi) to take stern measures against Eng Goyagoya Mbenna, including suspension during his tenure as the Rural Water Engineer as well as Mr Julius Kaondo, who was the then Nkasi District Executive Director (DED) . Mr Aweso further said that the government had suspended over 800m/- as funds that were required by the Wimbe Consult Ltd ‘s contractor, despite initially being issued with over 210m/- that they misused . He said that was realised after it was awarded the tender, but they changed their minds to pump water from River Lwafi, 16 kms away, instead of sourcing it from Lake Tanganyika that is only a kilometer away. On his part Nkasi North Constituency Member of Parliament (MP), Mr Ally Kessy advised Mr Aweso to arrest all those who were involved in the preparations of the contracts in his ministry, saying he was only aware of six water projects in his area all valued at only 3.9m/-.