AT, through its Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, has assured Tanzanians a medal haul in the 21st Commonwealth Games of Gold Coast, Australia, saying there are many others capable of winning medals. Speaking in Karatu in his report presented to the Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Juliana Shonza, the AT Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday, said the campaign for medals is there since the country has many athletes who can bring home medals. He said during the closing ceremony of Karatu Athletics Festival that the country should not depend on one athlete to win medals and insisted there are many others who can perfectly do it. He, however, didn’t unveil the names of athletes who the federation banks to bring back medals almost ten years after Samson Ramadhan won the last gold for the country in 2006. Gidabuday confirmed that Simbu won’t compete in Gold Coast next year, saying he needed a good rest before taking part in any event. Gidabuday, however, unveiled that Simbu will compete in London Marathon to be held in April, 2018. He said Tanzania has won medals in the Commonwealth Games several times and only two silver medals in Olympic Games. In what it sensed a controversy, Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) had complained about omitting Simbu in the Commonwealth Games squad before AT including him later on athletics stakeholders’ demand. Circulating reports say AT decided not to omit Simbu in the Commonwealth Games after his sponsor, Adidas had insisted the athlete to compete in London Marathon and not other wise. Speaking to the ‘Daily News’ reporter, Simbu said he was not sure he will go to Australia or not, but he personally would prefer to run in London Marathon next year. He admitted he had not met officials of Tanzania Olympic Committee (TOC) on the issue. Simbu who won DSTv sponsorship after Rio de Janeiro feat said he personally would prefer to represent the nation in Club Games and he will go anywhere if his leaders order him to. Simbu who won national appeal after finishing fifth in Olympic Games of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, last year, went on to win a gold medal in Mumbai Marathon this year before later claiming a bronze medal in IAAF World Athletics Championship in London in August, this year. Born on February 14, 1992, Simbu is a leading Tanzanian long distance runner who specialises in the marathon. He competed in the marathon event at the 2015 World Championships in Athletics in Beijing, China. At the 2016 Summer Olympics in the men’s marathon, he finished 5th with a time of 2:11.15. He was the flag bearer for Tanzania during the closing ceremony. He won the 14th edition of the Mumbai Marathon on 15 January 2017.