Most notably, however, was Tanzania Open Golf Championship at Kili Golf Course in Arusha which was heralded by an epic playoff between Joseph and his Kenyan opponent, Edwin Mudanyi and the two were forced to share the title after the play off failed to decide the winner. Witnessed by the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe, the finals of the Tanzania Open at amateur category saw for the first time two golfers ending with similar score. Even after the sudden death couldn’t decide who is better than the other. Joseph and Mudanyi tied on aggregate 296 gross strokes after the end of the fourth rounds of the 72- hole duel. The overnight leader, Joseph led Mudanyi by three shots going to the final round, but carded one-over 73 as his closest challenger carded two-under par 70 to level the score at pressure group. They were forced to stage a play off that was keenly watched by Minister Mwakyembe at par-3 no. 18, but they twice tied after both securing a par. As the darkness hit course the only option according to tournament rules, was to go for a Monday 18- hole playoff. But Mudanyi said he had no budget to stay longer in Arusha and they both decided to share the top prize. Mudanyi, however, admitted that Victor was not luck since he could have won the title without a playoff if he hadn’t squandered his big lead. Tanzania top Joseph had perfect start carding 71, 76, and 73 at early rounds to lead from day one, but Mudanyi who slow start 78, 76, 71 charges at final round. Seif Mcharo from Lugalo carded 78,77,73,73 to finish overall third. Joseph dazzling performance at the 2017 Kenya Open Amateur Championship also justifies him that is getting where he belong at top East African golfers. He maybe not lack to be at golf school like other African amateur like Kenya Open Champions, but the Dar es Salaam Gymkhana Club (DGC) golfer Joseph is heading to the right direction. Joseph emerged overall second at the annual event held at the Nyali Golf and Country Club in Mombasa, Kenya. He started the tournament with dismal note carded 9-over par 80 at first round in the tough three days 72 holes competition. Tanzania ace corrected his mistake at second round hit one-over par 72 to return in pole position. But it was his marvelous 4-Under par 67 third round score that justify his status and ambitious to search his first Kenyan silverware, before again hit 72 gross in the final round to aggregate 291 that insured him a second placed. He was beaten by four shots by hosts Daniel Nduva, a student at South Africa’s School of Golf Excellence, who started with 77 gross in the first, 74 second round, but his wonderful 5-Under par 66 in the third and oneunder par 70 in the closing round helps total of three over par 287 to beat Joseph by four shots and crowning the new Kenya Open Amateur champion. In other hand Tanzania Lugalo Golf Club’s Angel Eaton returned 235 gross over 54 holes to win the Uganda Ladies Open title at Kitante. Eaton said this was one of the hardest competitions she had won over the years and thanked God for the victory. “To be honest the course was tough for me, I couldn’t put, and the greens were a bit faster for me. I have been off the course for two years and only returned in February and I’m happy I’m doing well,” Eaton said. Eaton won her third Uganda Ladies Open title adding to her 2012 and 2013 titles. Madina Iddi one of local top golfers hit 77, 80, and 81 to finish third three strokes off the champion. Lugalo club effort proves worth to the ladies team as they shine at Uganda to force Chairman Michael Luwongo pledges maximum support to them. Golfer prosperity impresses government as it has expressed determination to develop and make it plays key role in promotion of sports tourism in order to boost the sector in the country. Minister Mwakyembe has ordered the Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) to engage his ministry in their activities, so that they could chip in useful ideas on how to run and develop the game in the country. “We want golf to be a sport for tourism; I’ve seen its potential here. I will talk to tourism minister to support the initiative too. “I’m impressed and also happy to see many young players performing well locally and internationally, I encourage them to take the sport seriously,” he said. Minister Mwakyembe said government will continue to provide necessary support, including allocating land for individuals or companies wishing to invest in sports. He also paid tribute to Tanzania People’s Defence Forces (TPDF) Lugalo Golf Club for the efforts they make to engage many youth into the sport and compete in tournament in which, most of them also won different titles. TGU chairman Joseph Tango said he was delighted to see some individual players are doing well in the region, but invest in development programme and infrastructure remaining big concern to prevent most compete at the highest level especial at national team.