He said the government was prepared to protect local industries and also set to fight the importation and production of substandard goods. “When you bring in substandard goods, you kill our local industries, we are prepared to protect our local industries, therefore traders who have been engaging in this business must stop,” he said at the official launch of the industrial exhibitions, taking place at Mwalimu Nyerere grounds along Kilwa road. Mr Mwijage said some local traders import goods from Asia and Europe through Uganda. He said Uganda has powerful bodies that control substandard goods and thus Tanzanian traders have found it useful to bring in products through Uganda. “This is a big lesson to us, some traders import goods from Uganda, but the same goods are brought to Uganda from China and other countries. Thus this gives us a message that Uganda does not allow substandard goods,” he said. The Minister said starting February, 2018, the government will conduct a serious inspection and whoever found selling or importing substandard goods will face the law. “We are going to destroy all substandard goods, but I have given two months to learn and make changes,” he said. “Starting February, I will be on street as well, so all substandard goods will be seized and destroyed”. He added that another measure that will be taken to control and protect local industry is to make sure all imported goods are cleared accordingly. He said some traders have been under declaring their imported products and thus make super profit, which weakens local industries. “You find a trader declaring that his/her container has only 15,000 t-shirts, but in reality there are 30,000 pieces, this means the government fail to get revenues as required and the product poses unfair competition to local products,” he said. The Minister added that smuggling is another problem that faces growth and development of local industries. He said substandard products have been brought in the country through smuggling. However, the Minister assures investors and traders in the country that starting February next year, his office in collaboration with other government bodies will start a special and endless operation to curb the matter. Earlier, the Minister launched a special industry for blind people who are engaged in clothes making activities. The plant has been established by the Tanzania Trade Development Authority (TanTrade).