He had been diagnosed with “Esophageal Varices Bleeding”four years before. It is this ailment that has brought about numerous occurrences of him vomiting blood. On allof the previous occasions, prior to last month, he was admitted. However, although the bleeding was said to be equally “life threatening”, as was the case last month, he could not be given appropriate treatment then.This is simply because there was a lack of suitable technology available, to treat his aliments. Therefore, after the bleeding had ceased substantially, he was discharged. Last month things were different. Machano was given anesthesia, to let him sleep through the latest procedure that was going to be used. In fact, it was the first endoscopic treatment of esophageal varicesat the MMH. It was also a pioneering work by a Chinese Medical Team (CMT) in Zanzibar. One of the 27’th CMT Physicians, Dr He Qibin, conducted the operation. It’s important to note here that this was not a one-manoperation, for Dr He was assisted throughout the entire procedure, by his colleague, Anesthesiologist Dr Hao Wu, together with the Internal Medicine Physician, Dr Thuwen Salum and Nurse Halima Habibu Abdalla, who are part of the staff there at the MMH. “The equipment weused is a Multiple Band Ligator (Speedband Superview Super 7), which was donated by the Chinese government. The patient was given some basic medicine, such as Omeprazole and Propranolol for internal use, before the operation that’s all,” Dr He told the ‘Daily News’ recently, when on the Isle. “My endoscope was preloaded with band ligation equipment. When varices are found, I released tiny elastic bands around the enlarged veins in the esophagus to tie them off so they can’t bleed. The banded varices are then eventually sloughed (necrotic tissue; a mortified or gangrenous part or mass),after a few days and the esophagus is much less likely to bleed after it’s healed,” Dr He added, as if talking to a fellow medical practitioner. According to him, the procedure was successfully done and after three days Machano was discharged. Now he is waiting for his next treatment, which should be later this month. When the ‘Daily News’ asked for an explanation of Machano’s ailment in more layman’s language Dr He said that Esophageal Varicesare extremely dilated sub-mucosal veinsin the throat, which are most often a consequence of a chronic disease interfering with the normal functioning of the liver. Patients with this problem usually have a “strong tendency” to develop bleeding, he added. These two medical specialists, Dr He and Dr Hao, are two out of 18 medical practitioners who form the 27’th CMT from NanjingCity in Jiangsu Province, there in Zanzibar. There’s also a Physician, Dr He Xiaowei in Pemba, General Surgeons Wang Hao in Unguja and Xi Pengcheng in Pemba. Added to these are Urologist Dr Liu Tieshi in Unguja, Gynaecology and Obstetrics Dr Weng Qiao in Unguja and Dr Luo Ning in Pemba, with Orthopaedic Dr Wu Xiaoshu in Pemba. Anaesthesiologist Dr Wu Hao is in Unguja, while Dr Su Zhonghong is in Pemba. There’s also Paediatrician Dr Guo Yulan in Pemba, while ENT specialist Dr Wang Junguo is in Unguja and Dr Chen Erdong in Pemba.That leaves the Dentist Dr Li Hao in Unguja, together with Ophthalmology Dr Qin Qin and Radiologist Dr Wei Xiaolei, with Dr Wu Zhengcan in Pemba and the Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) expert, Dr Ruan Jianguo there in Unguja. There are three other members of the team, which are their translator, Zhou Ziyue and two chefs, Li Jing in Unguja and Gu Huanyu in Pemba. The team’s translator, Mr Zhoutold the ‘Daily News’ the equipment used to perform Machano’s operation was donated by Jiangsu Province to the MMH last September and is valuedat more than three hundred thousand US dollars (USD 300,000). Actually, this piece of equipment was part of a large quantity of medicines and medical instruments, the National Health and Family Planning Commission of China, had donated to Zanzibar, through the 27’th CMT. When making the donation the Chinese Consul General in Zanzibar, Mr Xie Xiao Wu, said the team of medical practitioners had three laparoscopic experts, who will use it to perform “minimally invasive operation” and teaching in the field of surgery and gynecology on the Isles. He also said two engineers from Nanjing Drum Tower Hospital in China had arrived on the Isle specifically to install the equipment. “We hope these efforts will improve the actual level of minimally invasive surgery in Zanzibar and benefit the local people.The Chinese government is committed towards supporting the economic and social development of Zanzibar. We are concerned about the health of Zanzibari, together with promoting comprehensive and in-depth cooperation in different areas,” the Envoy said. The Consul General went on to praise the 27’th CMT for since the first day they arrived on the Isles, they have been busy working side-by-side with local doctors. It is together, he continued that they have successfully carried out a number of “innovative medical practice, which strongly support the healthcare development and improve the health level of the people of Zanzibar”. He hoped the experts from both China and Zanzibar continued cooperating in such manner, so that they can continue learning from each other, to better serve the people of the Isles. When receiving the donation on behalf of the government the Minister of Health, MrMahmoud Thabit Kombo, expressed his pleasure for receiving such donations from the Chinese government for decades now. “The first CMT that came here immiadetely after the Zanzibar revolution in 1964, are our heroes because they started this relationship, which has continued until today. This tradition has never stopped and as we go on, it has become closer and closer,” Mr Kombo said. He also referred to the equipment together with medication donated, as being “a great donation, at the value of USD 550,000, which is equivalent to almost 1.2bn/- , towards helping the people of Zanzibar”. Mr Kombo also asked the CMT to train local doctors how to use the new equipment, so that they will be able to handle them when left to them. Donating advanced modern equipment is one thing that is much appreciated, the Health Minister said. However, having the technical knowhow is another, which is very much needed by the local staff, he suggested. Before leaving The Isles the ‘Daily News’ took some time to talk with members of the 27th CMT medical specialists. Words from a conversation with their team leader,General Surgeon Dr Wang Hao, should provide a general idea of the kind of sentiments expressed by them, who are there in Zanzibar on a one-year stint, which started last June. Despite the physical separation from their spouses, children and other family members back in China, they have managed to find a suitable way of adapting to the cultural differences there in Zanzibar and China, of which language is the main one. Dr Wang maintains the cooperation and they get from local medical staff, there in Zanzibar, makes the challenges less apparent, so they can concentrate on the work they came there to do.