This has become a result of the Philanthropic NGOs doing research and realizing that puffing is not only harmful to your body, but also endangers the lives of the passive smokers unwillingly subjected to the smoke of the person enslaved in the habit next door. For that matter, President Paul Kagame of Rwanda should be extolled in the East Africa Community (EAC) for having directed that shisha smoking is illegal in the country, a leaf he probably borrowed from Tanzania, when the Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa in July 2016 outlawed it Bongoland. The Premier was quoted to have requested the local clergy, parents and all leaders to fight against dealers and smokers of the molasses-based tobacco concoction smoked in a water pipe known as hookah. For those who are not consistent with news, the directive of Mr Majaliwa came after Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda bravely declared war against dealers of the tobacco-laced shisha in the country’s business capital-Dar es Salaam and insisted that all the joints which sell the ‘crop’ as some call it should be closed immediately. Again recently, President John Pombe Magufuli became concerned with moral decadence in the society, an idea that perhaps the Premier had observed and banked on to say that consumption of shisha results into temptations to indulge in all sorts of vices and erode morals among the youth. Without involving politics into reality, shisha tobacco and smoke contain numerous toxic substances known to cause lung, bladder, and oral cancers and a typical one-hour session of hookah smoking exposes the user to 100 to 200 times the volume of smoke inhaled from a single cigarette. Shisha (hookah) smoking can be as damaging, addictive, and dangerous as cigarettes, because the tobacco is no less toxic in a water-pipe. In fact, a habitual shisha smoker might breathe in much more poisonous fumes during an hour-long session than a typical cigarette smoker inhales in a few days. If you don’t know shisha smoking–also called narghile, water-pipe, or hubble bubble smoking–is a way of smoking tobacco, sometimes mixed with fruit or molasses sugar, through a bowl and hose or tube. The tube ends in a mouthpiece from which the smoker inhales the smoke from the substances being burnt into their lungs. In a nutshell shisha damages different body organs and its smoke is associated with increased risk of disease which might not be noticeable now, but the harmful chemicals are already slowly damaging certain parts of the body of a shisha user. As a bloc of EAC, it is high time the habit be fought and abolished just like in other parts of the world including Pakistan, Jordan, Singapore and Saudi Arabia because it does not add any value to the person, but instead enslaves. As a Public Health Specialist, several researches and publications documented would make one concur with Rwanda’s Ministry of Health that importation, advertisement and smoking of shisha within its territory has painful health hazards, and it is like one buying or paying for one’s death in the name of acquiring baseless pleasure. One must not be Socket Scientist to know effects of shisha, but should rush to team up with the country’s Minister for Health, Dr Diane Gashumba that smoke that emerges from the water-pipe contains numerous toxicants known to cause the diseases already mentioned. Again, recently the World Health Organisation (WHO) in an advisory note to regulators revealed that smoking shisha poses grave health risks as shisha smokers in a single session would inhale smoke of 100 or more cigarettes. “Cigarette smokers typically take eight to 12 cigarettes with a 40 to 75 millimeter puffs and inhaled 0.5 to 0.6 litres of smoke unlike shisha smoking sessions which typically last 20 to 80 minutes, during which the smoker may take 50 to 200 puffs which range from about 0.15 to 1 litre each,” it further illustrated. Though it has become increasingly a habit and popular among some youth in Africa and in EAC-Kenya, that also recently abolished plastic bags for its environmental degradation, that in public domain, but should also corner shisha smokers as well as other remaining member states. According to the Jakaya Kikwete Cardiac Institute (JKCI) institute Executive Director, Prof Mohamed Janabi, cigarette smokers (read shisha) should think of health hazards caused by the habit because they get no benefits out of it apart from exposing their health to the major risks. He says: “In order for the heart to function properly it needs pure blood supply, but when the arteries are damaged… the supply is affected, and thus leads to heart attack or stroke.” Prof Janabi points out that when the coronary arteries are damaged as a result of such habit(s), there would be irregular heartbeats because the heart will not pump the blood efficiently. He explains that when the heart pumps out blood to less than 50 per cent (ejection fraction), there is a possibility that some blood vessels are not working properly and that is normally due to smoking. “Normally each heartbeat ejects 70ml of blood, thus with 70 beats, it produces 4900 ml which is equivalent to five litres of blood that is recommendable for a healthy heart. If the heart is not working properly, for example when its ejection fraction goes down to 30 or 40 percent, it means less blood is pumped out and that results into conditions such as swollen legs or one feeling sick,” he further said. It may be addressed with all sorts of names as hookah tobacco, maassel, narghile and argileh and comes in several flavours including fruity, minty, rich and creamy, but it exposes the user to the addictive chemical nicotine as well as tar, carbon monoxide and heavy metals such as arsenic and lead, hence one should not be drawn to it and believe it is ‘cool’ and a flavoured relaxing fun as they tend to claim. Though there is a common belief that the risks of tobacco consumption are reduced since it is purified as it passes through the water, on the contrary, WHO insists that even after it has been passed through water, the smoke produced contains high levels of toxic compounds, including carbon monoxide, heavy metals and cancer-causing chemicals that is why doctors also do not encourage it during pregnancy amongst female smokers. To avoid unnecessary debate from people who would want to justify shisha smoking without any data or scientific research, one should realize the following facts from the habit. Shisha contains carbon monoxide (CO) in amounts equal to or greater than that from cigarettes. CO replaces oxygen on red blood cells, making it harder for the body to deliver oxygen to vital organs which can later lead to organ damage. Shisha smoking produces similar increased blood nicotine levels and heart rate as cigarette use. The inhaled substances trigger chemical reactions in nerve endings, this release dopamine which is associated with the feeling of pleasure. This seems to play an important role in nicotine addiction. A Shisha smoker is still smoking tobacco and the nicotine in it causes dependence after using it for several times. It is associated with increased risk of disease including cancer, heart disease, lung disease and many other deadly ailments. It might not be noticeable now but the harmful chemicals are already slowly damaging certain parts of the body of a shisha user. Of concern, smokers of water pipes may be exposed to even more smoke than cigarette smokers because water pipe smoking sessions last from 20-80 minutes during which a smoker may inhale as much smoke as that from 100 or more cigarettes. This only magnified and multiplied the effects of smoking shisha. So be informed that shisha taking is in a way of smoking tobacco, despite the ‘friendly’ names of hookah, boory, goza, narghile, nargile, arghile, and hubble bubble one would coolly call it. Smoking shisha and breathing second hand smoke from water-pipes can be presumed to have similar effects as exposure to cigarette smoke. The most common form of tobacco smoked in a water pipe is called Maassel, which is sweetened and flavored in such flavors as apple, mint, cappuccino, etc. Smoking shisha contains significant amounts of nicotine, levels of caustic compounds and heavy metals like cobalt, and lead most common in areas of China, India, Pakistan, and the Eastern Mediterranean region, as well as United States. Also to be noted, that shisha outlet had been showing up like mushroom in different parts of the globe today. Unlike cigarettes, shisha smoke may also contain charcoal or wood cinder combustion products from the heat source used to burn the tobacco, increasing the cancer-causing agents in the smoke. Apart from the harmful effect of the chemical, the end product produced by the charcoal only intensifies the damage it can cause to the body. Equally it has adverse effects during pregnancy and put pregnant women at a greater risk to their unborn child in low birth weights and other birthing problems. Other health risks associated with it include the spread of infectious diseases like tuberculosis, herpes, and hepatitis. Viral infections can be transmitted through the sharing of the same mouthpiece a common custom in many cultures. In conclusion, there is a widespread misperception that shisha smoking is safe, but in general, people know little about its health effects and believe that it is less harmful than cigarette smoking. Another common misperception among shisha users is that they will not suffer any adverse consequences if they smoke occasionally rather than like most daily cigarette smokers. Yet even occasional users could be harmed because they probably inhale a lot of smoke full of toxic substances during smoking sessions that typically last for 45 minutes to over an hour both directly and through secondhand smoke. Generally, EAC as a bloc want healthy workforce and not spend money to treat avoidable diseases acquired from habits which are not healthy to the citizens and their governments.