“As I speak, stakeholder meetings have already been held that have incorporated all sectors. The aim of this new policy is to make the sector sustainable and ensure growth and increase in natural resources,” he explained. Mr. Mdamu cited that the first policy was drafted in 1991 and later reviewed in 1999, and that this will be the third policy and will be a lot better because it will touch on the new trendy forms on tourism. In the same vein of making tourism sustainable in the country, the Tanzania National Parks (TANAPA) Director of Tourism, Mr. Ibrahim Mussa said that apart from the traditional safari where the main activity has been wildlife viewing and game drives, TANAPA has successfully been developing new products and activities. He said that TANAPA has taken into consideration the Wellness Tourism trend which is travel for the purpose of promoting health and well being through physical, psychological, or spiritual activities, saying good progress has been made on the part that involves physical or active tourism. “Now, national parks in Tanzania provide the opportunity for tourists to indulge themselves in activities like horse riding, walking, canoeing, boating, sport fishing, paragliding and cycling,” he said. Mr. Mussa said that such products will be rolled over to more national parks. Currently, Tanzania leads in the Eastern Africa region in terms of tourist’s average length of stay (10-12 days) because of such diversified products, saying that they have added value to the traditional safari. He said that it was important to note that trips organized around the principle of wellness tourism should include healthy food, exercise, spa treatments, and opportunities to experience or to expand one’s spirituality and creativity. Safari Lodges in Tanzania, including Four Seasons, Singita, Melia, Serena and Asilia have started to offer massage and spa treatments. The 2015 Global Spa and Wellness Monitor report puts Sub-Saharan Africa as the world’s fastest growing region for wellness tourism. The number of spas has tripled since 2007, and spa revenue has leaped to 184 per cent. The wellness trend has also started to leak into Africa’s safari industry, according to Henry Hallward, the founder of both the Good Safari Guide and the Safari Awards, who is also the former chairman of the African Tourism and Travel Association. Hallward estimates that there are 9,000 safari lodge operators today, up from approximately 400 in 1995. Pampering, he admits, has also become a stronger focus. He said that even countries that were once eschewed due to political concerns are set to emerge as wellness hotspots. Hallward says he’s seen growth in markets such as Ethiopia and even the Sudan, “now that the politics has calmed down.” He is also noticing a shift in the type of safaris on offer, saying that the old formula of trekking the “Big Five” in the Masai Mara from the comfort of a jeep is outdated, and instead safaris are becoming more active, and different countries are starting to specialize in niche versions. “Botswana has become the center for safaris on horseback, while Malawi and Zambia are emerging for the underwater wildlife experience,” he said. Wade further said that he is also noticing growth in regions that were once considered offlimits. “Angola is getting up there, and Rwanda is starting to pay attention. It’s still in its infancy there, but it will grow fast,” he said.