The games start while the Council for East and Central Africa Football Associations (CECAFA) Senior Challenge pitting national soccer teams are held in Kenya from today. The 8th EAC Inter- Parliamentary Games scheduled to climax on December 11th, themed ‘Integrating Citizens and Strengthening,’ will be staged at the National Stadium and at the Jakaya M. Kikwete (JMK) Youth Stadium in the City Centre in Dar es Salaam. Inter- Parliamentary Relations through Sports, brings together the national parliaments of Tanzania, Burundi, Kenya and Uganda. The EAC Legislative Assembly Senior Public Relations Officer, Bobi Odiko, said here yesterday that the Parliament of Rwanda and the Transitional National Legislative Assembly of South Sudan have sent their apologies, while at the regional Assembly (EALA), staff participate as a guest team at the ten-day tournament. Odiko said the tournament will be preceded by a halfday pre-tournament conference today, to nurture networking and bonding among the legislators. He said that the tournament will for the first-time feature a walk-race –a newly introduced sporting discipline. Other disciplines include football, netball, golf, athletics, tugof- war and volleyball. Athletics will feature races in 100 metres, 200 metres, 400 metres, 800 and 1,500 metres respectively for men and women. The 400 x 4 relay is also on the cards. In football, defending champions, Uganda faces stiff competition from the other parliaments keen to dethrone them. Last December, Uganda beat Burundi 7-6 in penalties during a scintillating final played at the Mbaraki Sports ground, Mombasa, to reclaim the trophy. In men’s volleyball, Kenya who are the champions will have to put up a good fight with all Parliaments –going out guns blazing for the title. Meanwhile, SportPesa Tanzania has stepped in to sponsor Tanzania football and netball team participating in inter-parliamentary games. Speaking to the press in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the company’s Director of Administration and Compliance, Tarimba Abbas said, “We had decided to engage ourselves in this competition by supporting Tanzanian team in football and netball by providing various sports equipments like jerseys, balls, socks and bibs. “Our main goal is to develop sports sector in Tanzania especially football that’s why we are sponsoring teams like Young Africans, Simba and Singida United. Bunge Sports Club Chairman, William Ngeleja thanked SportPesa Tanzania for their invaluable support.