The appeal featured prominently in a speech he delivered here yesterday, while opening the 9th national general assembly for the ruling party’s youth wing, UVCCM. The youth, he stressed constituted the “life and treasure” of the nation and the party, cautioning: “one must be clean, disciplined, patriotic, brave, educative and a hard worker.” “A youth who receives and gives bribes, as well as takes narcotic drugs doesn’t make a significant contribution to the nation and the party,” he said at the meeting whose high-profile attendants included CCM Vice- Chairman (Zanzibar) and Isles President Dr Ali Mohamed Shein, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa and First Lady Mama Janeth Magufuli. The President’s scathing remarks were prompted by resurfacing corruption allegations within the country’s oldest political party which is currently holding internal elections. UVCCM is gearing up toelect its national chairman, vice chairman and secretary general. “I am not expecting someone who would have bought your votes to become the chairperson,” the President told members of the UVCCM General Assembly at Mwalimu Nyerere Main Hall of the Institute of Rural Development Planning (Mipango) in Dodoma. He said he would bank heavily on the youth in his team to provide the much-needed human capital to speed up economic growth and foster sustainability. Dr Magufuli accused leaders of the party’s youth wing of blocking brave and potentially more resourceful compatriots from playing more active roles for the benefit of their party and the nation at large. He reminded CCM supporters that despite the youth playing a key role in enabling the party to win the 2015 General Election, the youth wing didn’t field to him, any names of individuals they deemed suitable for presidential appointments. “There are now a good number of them on board and most of them are delivering,” he said, adding: “I, and Zanzibar President Dr Shein will continue to value the contribution of the youth by appointing more of them in posts that become available.” He directed the new leaders to survey and review all the party’s assets to ensure a sustainable accountability. Meanwhile, the President dissolved the UVCCM Board, explaining that it had not been helpful to the party. Mboni Mhita, UVCCM Vice- Chairperson and MP for Handeni Rural, said the wing was delighted by the President’s decision to increase employment opportunities for the youth through the much touted industrial revolution.