The Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe who spearheads a nationwide sports development campaign, said in three international-level events he attended that the government was serious in its campaign to take sports to the next level. Also Dr Mwakyembe who attended the CANA Zone III Swimming Championship in Dar es Salaam, Oryx African Rally Championship and the Tanzania Open Golf Championship at Kili Club in Arusha said he was impressed with the way the Tanzanian envoys fought for their country. Swimming is experiencing steady growth though the majority of its fans and practitioners came from mediumclass citizens and youth from Superior-class English medium schools. Swimming, one of the sports that fetch the biggest number of medals in Olympic Games, notched a sky-high leap in 2017; a situation that observers feel it could perform better if the sport reaches the majority of the youth at village level. Tanzania, whose sporting excellence is globally seen in athletics, retained CANA Zone III swimming title ahead of the sport’s powerhouses; South Africa, Kenya and Uganda. Generally, 2017 has been a blessed year for the swimming fraternity. The staging alone of this lucrative competition was a big boost towards the advancement of swimming countrywide and helped to attract attention from government and non-governmental organisations (NGOs) who saw that the sport of swimming has potential to put the nation on the world face. Tanzanian swimmers, who are better educated and trained, are very promising and are capable of achieving bigger things in future, provided they get full support from the public. As clarified by Ramadhan Namkoveka, the Secretary General of Tanzania Swimming Association (TSA), the association organised a bigger number of competitions in 2017 with the major purpose of identifying potential swimmers for the national team that will compete in the Tokyo Games in 2020. Namkoveka said the nationwide competitions provided youths with a good opportunity to beat qualifying marks set by the international swimming body (FINA). Golf also did well in 2017, and the major players in the sport were Victor Joseph and Angel Eaton who won several tournaments at both regional and continental levels. 2017 also saw Iringa-based driver Ahmed Huwel finishing second and Harrinder Deere claiming the third spot as Tanzanian round of the Africa Rally Championship turned into a historic tourist event across Bagamoyo District. Dr Mwakyembe, who witnessed three international events, underscored the importance of investing heavily in swimming, golf and motorsports, which he said can greatly popularise the nation especially at the global level. He said when the country’s sportsmen and women win; they help to put the country’s name on the international map. He also promised sportsmen and women that the government will help to improve sporting infrastructure that includes the construction of ten Olympic size swimming pools and golf courses across the country. He said the government wants to give the youth an opportunity to learn swimming and playing golf at a tender age. Already enjoying good sponsorship, football will always need more investors as it enjoyed the biggest fan base. 2017 has seen remarkable achievements in football, the country’s favourite sport. Most importantly it is the Premier League where the influx of foreign imports seems to play a role in results recorded in the 15 rounds of the league fixture. Players from West Africa, Southern Africa, and East and Central African states are involved in the league, with some of them even serving teams placed in the lower divisions. Tanzania Premier League’s reputation is growing as sponsors from around the world are recognising the potential to engage with big teams such as Simba, Young Africans and the newly promoted Singida United. Doing a commendable job in investing are firms like Azam Sports who back the Federation Cup, SportsPesa who sponsor three Premier League teams alongside the Premier League chief sponsor, Vodacom. We would like to see all that took place this year in terms of achievement being developed as well as calling for the improvement of the ongoing campaign to upgrade talents and sporting levels to enable 2018 hit the desired goals.