The former Dynamos and Warriors defender, Muroiwa, denied the reason disclosed by Singida United that he had thrown in the towel for him to solve some family problems in his native country, Zimbabwe, saying the real reason for his untimely departure was the failure by the club to meet his expectations. United, currently settled in the fourth position of the Mainland Premier League, which resumes next weekend after a two-week break, yesterday, revealed that they had struck a deal with Ghanaian defender, Malik Antre in the mini-transfer window, which closes midnight today. According to the club’s Director, Festo Sanga, the team signed the Ghanaian defender to fill the gap left by Muroiwa, who left the club and returned home due to what they revealed as some family problems. And already the Ghanaian has jetted in ready to serve his new club, which is looking to stun other top flight league clubs, especially the country’s two football giants Simba and Young Africans in the 2017/18 league season title race. Speaking about his decision to exit from Singida United, Muroiwa dismissed rumours that he was offloaded after poor performance, saying the club lacked professionalism and rather opted to return home early. And that came following reports that the Warriors’ centre back during the AFCON finals in Gabon, early this year, failed to impress in Tanzania. Muroiwa said he was not offloaded and that his decision to leave the club was due to the conditions of the club and the way they were being treated, which forced him to think over and decided that he should restart things at home. “A lot of things were going on and we were just quiet trying to push but there are situations, you see that you can’t keep on pushing and find somewhere else to move on with my career,” said Muroiwa. He said he was embarrassed twice after he was arrested at the airport on issues to do with work permit as he did not have one. “I didn’t have a work permit, I remember I was arrested twice at the airport because of work permit issues,” he disclosed. The Zimbabwean described Singida United as an ambitious club, which lacks professionalism when it comes to the welfare of its players. “I think it is an ambitious club which lacks professionalism, maybe I can say the way they deal with issues is not professional.” The tough defender recounted the time he was injured and had to fly back home for treatment after his club showed no care. “I think they were running out of finances. There was no doctor at the club and we had to find a doctor each time and we had different doctors who didn’t know exactly what the players were suffering from; so each time we changed doctors and it was affecting us,” narrated Muroiwa. Apart from that he said poor accommodation, which he described as ridiculous was among major issues that forced him out. “In terms of accommodation it was another major issue that contributed. I have to talk to the executive so that they release me because what they promised is not what they gave me; it was ridiculous, living in an empty house. In this mini-transfer window United has managed to capture the signatures of other seven players who are Mohamed Abdallah, Ally Hamisi Ng’azi, Assad Ally Juma and Issa Makamba - all from the U-17 national side, Serengeti Boys. Others are strikers Daniel Lyanga and Kambale Salita Gentil ‘Pappy Kambale’ from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) who was playing for Rwanda’s top flight side FC Etincelles, Both players have penned down two years contract with the club.