The annual development report released by Athletics Tanzania (AT) through its Secretary General, Wilhelm Gidabuday said the achievement it gained through the two disciplines evidences the early success of the Tokyo 2020 campaign that was launched nationwide soon after 2016 Rio Olympics Games. Gidabuday, in his report sent to the Minister responsible for sports, listed marathoner Alphonce Simbu, who sparkled in various world class races, cross-country star, Emanuel Giniki and Francis Damas, who won bronze medal in Junior Commonwealth Games as the athletes who performed well for the country in 2017. “There is a bright future for Tanzanian athletes following what they have achieved this year. As AT we have seen a remarkable increase in number of young athletes in various events stages countrywide,” said Gidabuday. Explaining further, Gidabuday said Simbu has become an inspiration figure in athletics since finishing fifth in Rio Olympics and he proved himself matured after winning a bronze medal in IAAF World Championship in London, almost 12 years after Christopher Isegwe won silver in 2005. “It took new AT leadership only 12 months to achieve what Tanzania achieved 12 years ago,” he added. Other athletes who qualified to compete in IAAF Championship in London included Emanuel Giniki, Ezekiel Jafari, Stephano Huche Gwandu, Sara Ramadhani, Magdalena Shauri, Failuna Abdi Matanga and Gabriel Geay. According to Gidabuday his team that came to power after an election on November 27, 2016, started right with cross country and it managed to stage in all its zones. “Giniki is the product of the cross country series we have staged nationwide this year,” he explained. The first Cross country was staged in Singida on 31 December, 2016 after just four days in power. “We staged a 6km race for women and 8km event for men. Just a week later on January 7, 2017, Manyara Region organized and staged big cross country races that were recognized by International Amateur Athletics Federation (IAAF) featuring 6km, 8km and 10km races. Emanuel Giniki and Ismail Juma emerged winners of the races. Lake Zone staged another successful cross country race on January 8, this year. “Though it was a well-organized event, it couldn’t surpass the success gained in Manyara Region. Manyara has become the home to the best athletes and region’s residents are big supporters of athletics,” he noted. On January 28, 2017, Zanzibar zone organised good competition, which was almost similar to that of Manyara in strictly adherence to IAAF regulations. Cross country race for the Southern Zone was staged in Songea, Ruvuma on February 11, 2017 and the event went on well despite a poor attendance. What the best from AT this year was an introduction of Cross Country series and the best of it can be learnt from Arusha Regional Athletics Association. The series overall winner was Cecilia Ginoka from National Service Unit (JKT) and Josephat Gisemo from Police, and both won tickets to compete in regional tournament in Kampala Uganda. Adding, he said AT for the first time introduced cash prize system for the winners of the cross country races to boost morale of the runners. According to Gidabuday, over 6m/- was spent to reward the best performers of Women 8km,6km Junior and men and women 10km races. Also worth to note, according to Gidabuday, is alarming increase of marathon races, which he said was good sign, but need closer supervision to ensure the races adhere to rules and regulations in terms of safety and rewarding.