The league came to a halt on November 29th, this year, to pave the way for the Council for East and Central Africa (CECAFA) Senior Challenge Cup, which was staged in Kenya from 3rd to 17th December, this year. Hosts Kenya’s Harambee Stars beat Zanzibar Heroes 3-2 in post-match penalty shootouts in the final to win the trophy. According to the fixture, Azam FC will face Stand United at the Azam’s Chamazi Complex on Friday; the match will kick off at 7 pm. The next day, Iringa’s Lipuli FC will have a task against Tanzania Prisons at the Samora Stadium, a match that will kick off at lunch time. The day will also see Mtibwa Sugar battling it out against Majimaji FC at the Manungu grounds in Turiani, Morogoro, while title-chasers, Simba, face a daunting away trip to Ndanda FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara. The matches will kick off at 4pm. Simba, who have recently sacked Head Coach, Cameroonian, Joseph Omog, will be under caretaker Coach Burundian Masoud Djuma. On New Year’s Eve, Njombe Mji will welcome Singida United in a lunch time kick off at the Sabasaba ground in Makambako, while Mbao FC will face defending champions, Young Africans at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza in a match to kick off at 4 pm. On New Year’s Day, Mbeya City will battle it out against Kagera Sugar at the Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya, while Mwadui FC will welcome Ruvu Shooting at the Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga. And as the league enters its 12th round, soccer fans are eagerly waiting to see continued race for the top spot When the league came to a stop last month, topsy-turvy results had rocked Dar es Salaam giants, Simba, Young Africans and Azam FC. They all failed to pick maximum points in the 11th round of the league, although they maintained their tight grip of the three top positions. In the last round, defending champions Yanga came from a goal down to force a 1-1 draw against resilient and one-man short Tanzania Prisons, who could not give a breathing space to the Jangwani squad at Azam’s Chamazi Complex. Then Yanga’s traditional rivals Simba failed to open a fourpoint gap on top of the premiership table after being held to a frustrating 1-1 draw by league debutants Lipuli FC at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The hosts took a comfortable lead through veteran midfielder, Mwinyi Kazimoto’s spectacular strike in early minutes of the battle. However, discipline, determination and teamwork played a crucial role for the visitors, as they cancelled Simba’s lead through a well taken free-kick by Asante Kwasi, which left the country’s top keeper Aishi Manula stranded. The goal gave the Ghanaian defender green light to join Simba. Azam also failed to take advantage of the giants’ slip off, after being held to a 1-1 draw by Mtibwa Sugar at their turf Chamazi Complex in the city. The Ice-cream makers could not get the better of the Sugar cane growers, hence missing the golden chance to top the 16-team league table. Simba still lead with 23 points tied with Azam but inferior goals have dragged the latter to the second place. Yanga sit third with 21 points, Singida United occupy fourth place with 20 points. Mtibwa are fifth on the table with 18 points, while Tanzania Prisons and Lipuli accommodate sixth and seventh slots after bagging 15 and 14 points, respectively. Mbao, Majimaji, Kagera Sugar, Ndanda, Mbeya City and Ruvu Shooting have all claimed 11 points from eleven matches to accommodateeighth, ninth, tenth, 11th, 12th, and 13th positions accordingly.