Speaking during the team training yesterday at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Nsajigwa said his team is well prepared and ready for today’s match. “We have trained today (Saturday) and our target is to ensure we win the match and get maximum three points … this is very important,” Nsajigwa said. Nsajigwa said Mbao is a good team having young talented players with lot of quality and fighting spirit. However, Yanga have always found the going tough whenever they play Mbao at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. They lost twice there. April 30th, this year, Mbao beat Yanga 1-0 at the same venue in Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC) Semifinal clash, with defender Vincent Andrew scored an own goal in the 29th minute. On May 20th, 2017 Mbao beat Yanga 1-0 at the CCM Kirumba Stadium to escape relegation from the top flight league. However, on October 30th, last year, Yanga beat Mbao 3-0 at the Uhuru Stadium in the league clash. Yanga will be without twin strikers – Ibrahim Ajib and Zambian Aubrey Chirwa. Ajib is serving three yellow cards suspension, while Chirwa is yet to report back in camp from his native country Zambia, where he went to attend family matters. Ajib and Chirwa duo are involved in 11 goals out of 17 Yanga have netted in the league so far. Chirwa has netted six times, while Ajib has scored five. Yanga will also be without virtuoso Zimbabwean midfielder, Thaban Kamusoko and countryman, striker Donald Ngoma, who are still nursing injuries. Key central defender, Kelvin Yondani will also miss the encounter, because he has yet to recover from injuries he picked while serving the Mainland side, Kilimanjaro Stars in the recently concluded, CECAFA Senior Challenge Cup in Kenya. On their side, Mbao are also determined to cause an upset against the defending champions. Head Coach, Etienne Ndairagije, clearly knows that their task will be daunting, however, with the Jangwani Street lads eager to crawl their way to the top of the standings. “We clearly know that Yanga will be eager to crawl their way to the top and this will certainly make the match tough for both sides.” “I’ve always felt like we’ve done well against Yanga, especially at home. And we hope to do the same this weekend. We will have a go at them and we will try and get something from them,” Ndairagije said.