“A golden chance never comes twice. It is unfortunate that we have been a bit slow in grabbing these opportunities that are granted to us. We must wake up,” Dr Mahiga said. Speaking on the sidelines of the event prepared by the Chinese embassy in Tanzania to celebrate the assumption of duties of the new Chinese Ambassador in the country, Ms Wang Ke, Dr Mahiga said Tanzania being a country with special relations with China stands a good chance to benefit from preferential opportunities from the Asian nation. However, Dr Mahiga said for the public to benefit from such opportunities offered by China, government leaders ought to make them known, including coordinating efforts of individuals who seem to be quick to exploit them. China, under its One Belt One Road initiative, has recently offered opportunities to Tanzanians in the areas of trade and agriculture but the pace of exploiting them has been sluggish. Under the initiative, China aims at promoting better economic integration between the numerous countries involved. The initiative is also part of a wider strategy by which the second largest country in the world wants to promote the internationalisation of its companies (“Go global strategy”) to bring them to levels of greater competitiveness in the global economy. In implementing the initiative, China came up with several strategies, including creating China Africa Development Fund (CADF) to enhance the continent’s own ability to develop in market oriented ways. The Fund with US dollars 5 billion is meant to be loaned to African businesspersons, including Tanzanians who form business partnerships with Chinese people. Tanzania has started benefiting from the Fund as figures indicate around US dollars 700 million has already been invested in the country. China is ready to invest up to US dollar 1 billion in Tanzania. Commenting on the slow pace that Tanzanians are showing in responding to another opportunity offered by China of supplying dry cassava, Dr Mahiga said “that is going to be one of the subjects of discussion when I visit China a few days to come.” Currently, China is in high demand of dry cassava for production of high quality flour, starch, animal feeds, paper pulp and ethanol. The demand prompted the Asian nation to offer an opportunity to some countries, including Tanzania, to supply it with the agricultural produce. If fully exploited, the opportunity would immensely supplement government’s efforts of fighting poverty among its people, especially the rural communities. Currently, China received dried cassava from other countries, including Nigeria and South East Asia nations. During the occasion at the Chinese embassy over the weekend, Dr Mahiga said an industrialisation drive being implemented by the government is not aimed at making Tanzania the producer of sophisticated products like those produced in technologically advanced nations. The internationally acclaimed diplomat said industrialisation that is implemented by the fifth phase government aims at transforming the lives of Tanzanians, including adding value to agricultural production, the measures that will create employment for the locals and contribute to the country’s economic growth. “When we speak of industrialisation, we don’t mean we want to manufacture sophisticated products such as aircrafts. What we want to do is to invite small and medium -scale industries for the manufacturing of products that will transform the lives of our people, including creating job opportunities,” he said. On her part, Ambassador Wang said during her service she will make joint efforts with friends from all sectors in Tanzania to bring various advantages into full play and promote China-Tanzania multi-layered and mutual beneficial cooperation in all fields to deliver more practical results. “During my presence here as ambassador, I will spare no effort to fulfill my duty. I will be committed to promoting major cooperation projects between our two countries,” Ambassador Wang said. According to 2016 statistics from Tanzania Investment Centre (TIC), China’s direct investment to Tanzania was $ 7 billion, making the Asian nation the largest FDI source country in Tanzania.