In fact, more than 44 per cent of Tanzania’s land area is covered with national parks and game reserves. There are 16 national parks, 29 game reserves, 40 controlled conservation areas and marine parks. The nation is pretty rich on this aspect. Tanzania is, indeed, the richest country in the world in terms of wildlife diversity. So, if handled right, tourism can be a lucrative business. No wonder, the Tanzanian Diaspora has been asked to team up with envoys to promote and, indeed, market local tourism attractions in a quest to boost the inflow of visitors. The Managing Director of Tanzania Tourist Board, Ms Devota Mdachi, told a group of Tanzanians in the Diaspora, who had accomplished a Mt Kilimanjaro climbing expedition recently, that tourism must be promoted. If handled well tourism is, invariably, a money spinner. The nation envisages creating a friendlier tourism climate that would see the number of arrivals climbing from the current 800,000 to 1.6 million visitors annually by the end of this year. This is encouraging news. While Tanzania has some of the best tourist attractions in the world, the number of visitors still remains low and monetary receipts bleak. Inevitably, this stark reality needs remedial action. So, efforts are underway to boost tourist arrivals. This should go hand in hand with improved hospitality, good airports and paved feeder roads. It is unthinkable that a country that has 16 wildlife sanctuaries should fail to shunt in millions of lovers of nature. The home front can also be used to elevate tourist arrivals. Only recently, it was suggested that the local media could be used to popularize tourism spots. Local media and communication companies can be roped in, in advertising and promoting tourism. Speaking at a workshop on the review of the National Tourism Policy of 1999, Prof Raphael Mwalyosi, from the University of Dar es Salaam said that different approaches should be considered in the revised policy for the country to truly benefit from tourism. He said that some of the matters to be considered will include the country’s tourism promotion strategies that should involve the fast-growing local media and communication players who are increasingly accessible internationally. Yes, he is right. But while we praise the Ministry of Natural Resources and Tourism for its quest to double the number of tourist arrivals we tend to forget the stark fact that the nation has too few hotel beds and other facilities. And most of its feeder roads are impassable.