The villagers charge that the game reserve authorities keep pushing the animal sanctuaries boundary into the village. Kimotorok, a village that holds national Registration Number AR/KIJ/505, is bitter that the game reserve authorities are stealing its land by redefining the demarcation, pushing deeper and deeper into the village. The reserve is hemmed in by 12 villages but it is Kimotorok that has a raging dispute over land. During his tour of Manyara Region in February, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa instructed Dodoma and Manyara regional authorities to resolve the matter amicably. Mkungunero authorities have said recently they are currently busy installing beacons and that the exercise has been accomplished by 60 per cent around the game reserve that covers 742 square kilometers. Well, this is good news but the villagers remain disgruntled. Consequently, it is logical that Kimotorok village leaders be allowed to inspect the beacon installation exercise so the dispute is laid to rest. Indeed, there are too many conflicts over land in this country. The most bitter disputes pit livestock keepers against farmers. The government, under close supervision from President John Magufuli has so far resolved more than 690 land conflicts out of a whopping total of 1,378. Land conflicts are a confounding scenario. They crop up anywhere nearly every day. They keep escalating despite state efforts to shoot them down. Since the year 2004, for example, a total of 117 land councils have met to find solutions to 103,000 conflicts. Numerous other land conflicts remained unresolved during this period. These figures speak aloud about the magnitude of the problem, and in fact, this is the tip of the iceberg. The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlements Developments says that land councils are expected to handle a shocking total of 12,000 conflicts a year. Same conflicts sound like fiction. Last year the nation was shocked by a rather irrational combat that saw livestock keepers and farmers in Dihinda village of Mvomero District. As you may have guessed, the bone of contention was village land. While the livestock keepers needed the land for grazing their cattle the farmers stood their ground demanding that the pastoralists take their animals elsewhere for grazing because they were ruining eating their crops, ruining their farms. The dispute boiled over and culminated into a fight that virtually bordered on insanity. Not many people understood when it came to light that the cattle keepers killed a farmer in the heat of battle and that the farmers brought down 71 cows. The village must have looked like a killing field. The combatants wielded sharpened spears, bows and arrows, knives, sticks and stones during the fight. The madness culminated in the slaughter of the farmer and killing of the cattle. Well, this should not happen again.