The premier gave the order in the House yesterday as he delivered the speech for adjourning the seventh meeting of the 10th Parliament. He said if it is established that the council has failed to deliver in its supreme supervision of sports development, the government will not hesitate to dissolve it and form a new organ. I m directing minister responsible for sports to conduct a review and thorough assessment on the performance of the council to determine whether it is performing effectively its supervision role. If it is discovered that the supervision is not effective, we will dissolve it immediately and form a new one, he warned.He said the fifth phase government is committed to promote sports in the country and that it will not tolerate any form of poor management in the sector. We will continue to supervise sports in the country and we will not hesitate to take stern measures against poor supervision and maladministration of sports. The aim is to make sure that all those who are in charge of our sports bodies work diligently and deliver, he said.The premier also commended President John Magufuli for being in the frontline to promote sports in the country. He said the Head of State has successfully convinced Morocco to construct modern stadium in Dodoma. We are very grateful to Dr Magufuli for supporting and showing commitment to promote sports in the country. As we speak, Morocco has already accepted to build a modern stadium here in Dodoma, he said.Moreover, the premier paid accolades to the national Under-17 soccer team Serengeti Boys for putting up a sterling performance in the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations in Gabon. Premier Majaliwa said the team played very well and that all players bravely tried their best to win all matches. They patriotically tried their best to do better, I watched them playing and I can say they are the best Under-17 soccer team we ever had, he said.The premier asked TFF to take care of the team and ensure that the boys undergo further trainings to perfect their skills. Serengeti Boys were knocked out of the tournament last May after going down 1-0 to Niger in Port Gentil.Despite finishing on equal points (4) and goal difference (0), Niger pipped them to second place in group B on superior head to head record. The Serengeti Boys, who drew with defending champions Mali before beating Angola 2-1 in their match, needed a draw against Niger to sail to the semis and also book a slot in the U17 FIFA World Cup.However, they found themselves trailing on the stroke of half time after Ibrahim scored a controversial goal, which the referee allowed to stand. TFF has since promoted players who featured in the team to the national Under-20 side Ngorongoro Heroes.Premier Majaliwa also described the just ended InterSecondary School Games,