Stars, who bank on flair-less direct football, will be trying to apply it again to the tactic-filled Zambians following its immense success in its four previous encounters.Malawi Flames who lost 2-0 to Taifa Stars in the Group A opener, were the first victims of the direct football before it was applied again in matches against Angola, Mauritius and South Africa. If Stars win today, Zambia s Chipolopolo will be the fifth victims of what football analysts labelled an ugly football.Despite targeting another stunning surprise in the ongoing Cosafa Cup tournament, Stars coach Salum Mayanga, admitted that his squad will face a formidable Zambian squad infested with quality players, hence making the game very difficult and unpredictable.However, Mayanga who has clean record since taking charge of the national team, disclosed that his squad is ready to battle for the glory as they want to lift the COSAFA title for the first time after winless performance in two previous entries.Mayanga who has summoned up the towering striker John Bocco to reinforce his squad following Mbaraka Yusuf s injury in their match against Bafana Bafana, said they respect their opponents but they will not allow Zambia to frighten his team.However, Bocco is not sure of featuring for Stars in today s match as according to the team coordinator, Ahmed Mgoyi, they were still processing the registra tion of the striker in the tournament.On their side, Zambia who beat Botswana s Zebras 2-1 to cruise into the semis, claimed that their match against Taifa Stars is a must win and their team was in a high morale to execute the job.Zambia skipper Donashano Malama who is the most experienced player in the youthful squad that represented the country in the U-20 World Cup, said the team is focused on getting a positive result and that they will not underrate Taifa Stars because football is a fun odd game . There are no underdogs in football even those FIFA rankings don t work. We just have to work hard. We know things have not gone very well for the senior team in recent matches, but we want to appeal to the people back home to continue supporting us. No-one wants to lose, we all want to win and I can assure them that things will be okay, he said.Zambia, South Africa and Zimbabwe have won four COSAFA titles apiece. The winner of Stars versus Zambia game will play against the winner of the second semis game between Zimbabwe and Lesotho scheduled to take place after the first semis game at the Moruleng Stadium.Meanwhile, Bafana Bafana coach Stuart Baxter said while he was disappointed with the 1-0 loss to Taifa Stars in the quarterfinals of the 2017 Cosafa Castle Cup, it was nevertheless a muchneeded exercise to get some information on his players.Following a Taifa Stars goal early in the first half, South Africa could not recover from the setback and eventually surrendered the title they won in 2016. Results are very important, you never give away a result, you always want to win. I am really disappointed in the result but more disappointed that no one really raised their hand. I think the only player to do so was Riyaad Norodien. I think he did well, said Baxter.