They appeared in the list of overall top ten best performers in the 2014 Form Four National Examination results with the former at position five and the latter at position eight. In what appears to be a replica of the National Form Four examination results, the two students appeared in the list of overall top ten best students in the latest 2017 National Form Six results announced by National Examination Council of Tanzania (NECTA) Executive Secretary, Dr Charles Msonde at the weekend. When Dr Msonde unveiled the 2014 Form Four results on February 13, 2015, Mugisha had just graduated from Kilimanjaro’s Bendel Memorial Secondary School while Atuganile had graduated from Canossa Secondary School of Dar es Salaam. This time, the duo, according to the 2017 Form Six results, have featured in the list of top ten performers. Mugisha from Feza Boys and Atuganile of Feza Girls were placed at position four and eight. This means that Mugisha has jumped one position from on the top list from position five to number four while Atuganile has retained the same position that she got in the overall performance during the Form Four results. In the latest Form Six Examination results, Feza Girls emerged the overall best performer followed by Marian Boys, Kisimiri, Ahmes, Marian Girls, Mzumbe, St. Mary Mazinde Juu, Tabora Boys, Feza Boys and Kibaha Secondary schools. “We thank God and we are very proud of our students for the best performance once again, sustaining the tradition of Feza Schools being in the national top ten category. We believe strong teamwork embracing students, teachers, administration and parents is a key factor,’’ said the Director of Feza Schools, Mr Ibrahim Yunus, in a telephone interview with the ‘Daily News’. He added that nurtured with adequate investment and better facilities for quality education, Feza schools always tries to compete with its own yesterday and improve its tomorrow. Unveiling the results on Saturday at a news conference held in Zanzibar, at the Ministry of Education and Vocational Training building, the NECTA Executive Secretary said 98.12 per cent of the 61,308 students who sat as school candidates passed compared to 97.94 per cent of 63,528 students last year. The results also showed that girls had continued to shine over boys percentagewise. The pass rate for girls was 94.07 per cent compared to 93.49 per cent for boys. “We should commend our teachers for hard work in ensuring good performance in Form VI every year,” Dr Msonde said as he saluted girls for leading. The overall best student slot was won by St Mary’s Mazinde Juu Girls School, Sophia Richard Juma (PCB) and others in descending order and their combination and schools in brackets are Aghatha Julius Ninga (PCB, Tabora Girls in Tabora), Nathanael Philemon Ndagwe (PCB, Mzumbe in Morogoro) and Mugisha Reynold Lukambuzi (PCB, FEZA Boys in Dar es Salaam). Others are: Innocent Beda Labule (PCM, St Mary Goreti in Kilimanjaro), Pascal Masaba (PCM- Kibaha in Coast), Arsen Mwantuke (PCM-Marian Boys in Coast), Atuganile Cairo Jimmy (PCM, Feza Boys in Dar es Salaam), Donel Lot Chihoma (PCM, Marian Boys in Coast) and Erick Gilbert Philipo (PCB, Kibaha in Coast). Among the top ten best schools are Marian Boys and Marian Girls Secondary Schools. Marian Boys head master Joseph Ihonde, attributed the secret behind its success to self discipline for studying among the students. “We make them have self motivation to study without being supervised. We engage them into this school’s culture since the day they join the school,” Mr Ihonde told the ‘Daily News’ during a telephone interview. He further explained that teaching the students have self awareness over their goals in education was another reason for exemplary performance in exams. The teachers also work hard to make students do well in exams because the management was measuring the teachers’ performance through the final examination results. In this year’s Form Six results, the single sex schools outshined the co-education secondary schools, raising curiosity over the reasons behind the phenomenon. An experienced educationist with the Dar es Salaam University College of Education (DUCE), Mr Simon Shayo, explained that the co-education schools tend to lack competition among the students in the class. It happens in the co-education schools that one gender becomes less active in participating during learning. “When I was teaching in a co-education secondary school in 1996, 60 per cent of students failed… after investigating we found out that each student had a love partner, something that affects them in learning because of feeling shy in class,” he said. But, this is not the case for single-sex schools because the students develop a culture of competing in classes.