It was also the worst earthquake disaster to hit China in more than 30 years. Up to 80,000 people - an official number was never released - died in the rubble of the quake.Many victims were school children, as more than 14,000 classrooms were damaged, half of them collapsed entirely. Almost 400,000 people had to be treated for their injuries, which they sustained under tumbling buildings or in the numerous landslides in the mountainous region.The earthquake occured at the Longmen Shan Fault Zone, which marks the tectonic boundary between the eastern Tibetan Plateau and the Sichuan Basin. This was located less than 60 miles from Chengdu, the capital of Sichuan Province with its 11 million inhabitants.An earthquake with the magnitude of this often happens, accompanied the deaths and damage. Often, countries have been left with no Cap. This is the full picture of what was in the areas of Wenchuan and Lixian in Sichuan in China 9 years ago.May 12, 2008 those who mainly come from areas of the mountains of Wenchuan and Lixian, who survived the earthquake, forever will live with the scar. Also last week, more than 100 of people missing after a landslide in Sichuan province in south-western China and About 40 homes were destroyed in Xinmo village in Maoxian county, after the side of a mountain collapsed.Rescue teams are frantically searching for survivors trapped beneath rocks dislodged by heavy rainfall. This remembered the people of Sinchuan province the earthquake of 2008 which Some 375,000 people survived with serious injury, But these injuries spur even more, about 4.8 mil lion victims were left without shelter.In such a situation, how it was in many other places in the world that has been taken by the waves, officials and civilians remains desperate without knowing what to do after that.In fact, many times, it takes intervention by donors and members of the international community to try to restore at least as though they were minimal. But China was doing to empower his people affected to rise and continue with a normal life? Development and construction was applied and the country has been referred to by many as historic.Chinese Government has taken to restore normalcy to the areas that had been stricken by the earthquake has been attracting , Less than 3 years, the nation is led by the Communist Party was designing new homes for displaced persons in the community.They finally had a place they call home again. A few days ago I visited some of the areas that were hit by the earthquake. In some areas, the impact of the earthquake is still evident for all to see.In Wenchuan, the ruins of the Xuankou school is seen on the ground. Part of the school which was sinking under has remained buried as it was after the earthquake.According to records, 55 people were losing lives here. Teachers, students, workers and some of their parents died during the earthquake. Part of the Memorial was started within the same shile, but everyone who toured the disaster area is a pain in the heart when thinking only about what happened during the tragedy.Plans to restore everything to its original state launches. Wenchuan was the situation is okay and Lixian. Authorities were leading efforts to help students who survived the earthquake to resume their studies. After the earthquake, the Party Committee and Government at all levels had to worry too much about school. Classes started again at three universities in Chengdu. He said County Governor, Wang Shiwei, Lixian.With additional efforts from society, Wang noted that teachers and students moved to the city of Shanxi region, Changzi in transition as part of getting help. A short time later we visited the communities that were affected by the earthquake.But in this area, life seems normal. In fact, without this historical perspective, have entered the residence of the victims of the earthquake. Here, the population appears to have lived a life of contentment.The society is organized. Chinese authorities still prefer to refer to this section as a village. The community of Juilong is one of many villages which were built and spread across Sichuan to provide safe shelter to the displaced.But how China reached this efficiency in the short term? In response to that disaster, the entire party (ATTACH), armed forces and people of all ethnic groups in China were gathered and stood solidly behind the leadership of committees FROM CPC to fight hard this time. Governor Wang said. According to, Manager of this community Long Bo and who is also Secretary of the Association FROM CPC in Ward, Jiulong community now provides housing for 1,500 families He said others were transferred to nearby communities that have been created for that purpose. After the earthquake, the Government took immediate action to assist those who had been affected by the earthquake. This village was built in only 9 months. Two-thirds of the residents who live here, they live here today. He Said Jiulong. Records show that a total of 130,000 soldiers and hundreds of relief workers were sent to the scene of the disaster and the Chinese Government to assist in the construction and housing.Management of China in Beijing was mobilising resources and lead to construction. Even as the international community donated to help victims of the earthquake.