It was the first defeat for Stars who had been unbeaten in their four previous matches. Erasto Nyoni and Simon Msuva scored a goal in each half but a brace from Justine Shonga and goal apiece by Brian Mwila and Jackson Chirwa condemned Stars to a painful defeat.Zambians who seemed to have studied well Taifa Stars strength benefited much from the counter-attack system that Stars applied to get good results in the previous matches.However, laxity and failure to deal with the counter attacks cost Stars dearly in their match as it earned Zambians two quick goals in a span of two minutes. It was, however, a bright start for Taifa Stars and Erasto Nyoni s long ball forward found striker Elias Maguri in space, but the bustling striker dragged the ball over the byline after getting behind defender Lawrence Chungu.Then, Simon Msuva stole a ball from the defender but his low back post cross was cleared out. Zambia registered their first shot off target in the 8th minute when Mike Katiba dragged his shot wide.The deadlock was broken in the 16th minute, when Erasto Nyoni s blistering shot from a set piece beat keeper Allan Chibwe. Then Nyoni almost headed into his own net but was saved some blushes as the ball sailed out for a corner kick.Brian Mwila s header in the 32nd minute failed to hit the target. Both teams were relaying on their flanks to try and carve openings into the attacking third, with Msuva and Shiza Kichuya exchanging positions.In the 35th minute, Shonga s shot came off the bar and Stars survived yet another scare. In the 36th minute, Muzamiru Yassin s shot sailed wide and in the 39th minute Kichuya s set piece was tipped off the bar by the keeper.Stars were pouring forward in numbers and skipper Himid Mao s power packed shot was saved by the keeper. A minute before the interval, Stars were hit on the break when Mwila pounced unopposed to power home after being set clear by Katiba, who broke the offside trap.As Stars were still licking the wounds, Justine Shonga netted the second for Zambia in the additional minutes following an assist from Katiba. Nyoni was stretched off after picking a knock and was replaced by Raphael Daudi.After the break, Zambia came out fire blazing and won a spot kick in the 56th minute when a ball came off the hands of defender Gadiel Michael. It looked a harsh award for handball against Michael but Jackson Chirwa stepped up to score the third.Stars survived another scare in the 65th minute when Donashano Malama lashed the ball to the side netting. Then the fourth goal came three minutes later when Shonga got his brace, with another brilliant set piece effort from 35 yards out.Immediately after conceding the fourth goal, Stars coach Salum Mayanga, called off central defender Abdi Banda and replaced him with Nurdin Chona, who to some extent stabilised the wobbly defence.Msuva almost reduced the margin in the 78th minute but the attacker missed from a close range. Coach Mayanga made the final substitution, calling in Thomas Ulimwengu for ineffective Maguri.In the 84th minute a brilliant shot from Mao came crushing against the post, then Msuva scored from a drop ball but it was little bit too late for Stars. The winger almost netted the third three minutes before the final whistle but he fired off target. Zambia brought in Godfrey Ngwenya in 90th minutes for the two-goal scorer Justin Shonga.