The hike in excise taxes is beamed as a powerful tool for reducing consumption among youth and the public, at the same time increasing revenue collection for the state. Though some people believe that tobacco is an economically important crop to an extent that instituting effective tobacco control policies would lead to loss of revenue by the government, it remains a fact that tobacco products affect not only users but also non-users through second hand smoking. According to statistics, 14.1 per cent of Tanzanians smoke daily while the product is attributed as the major risk factor for Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) such as cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular and chronic respiratory ailment. Speaking at a two-day seminar, this week, organised for editors and senior journalists to build capacity on tobacco control issues, the former Executive Director, South Africa’s National Council Against Smoking, Dr Yussuf Saloojee, said that imposing higher taxes on tobacco products is a health decision that can prevent more deaths in the country. The seminar was organised by Tanzania Tobacco Control Forum in collaboration with African Tobacco Control Alliance and Ministry of Health, Community Development , Gender, Elders and Children. Dr Saloojee said that it will also influence consumer behaviour and discourage harmful consumption especially among youth and poor people. According to the World Bank publication, an increase in the real price of cigarettes by 10 per cent globally will prevent 10 million tobacco related deaths worldwide and 0.7 million deaths in sub-Saharan Africa. “Increases in tobacco taxes lead to increase in tax revenues, despite reduction in tobacco use,” he said. He further said that studies show that the poor are first to stop smoking if tobacco prices increase thus they will be able to save money and increased government revenues will be used to support pro poor programmes. Coordinator of non-communicable disease at the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children, Dr Sarah Maongezi said the government has taken various measures to control tobacco use in the country, such as ratification of the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 2007. She said the government is currently working to see the bill is tabled in the next Bunge session scheduled for September, this year. “Tobacco is the only legal product that maims and kills half of its users when used exactly as intended by the manufacturer,” Dr Maongezi said. She said tobacco kills more than 6 million people each year, most of them being at the age of between 30 to 69. Dr Maongezi added that about 200 million people are victims of tobacco use in the twentieth century and it is the period that is estimated to have killed billions of people if appropriate measures will not be put in place to control the trend. She further explained that NCD causes 60 per cent (35 million of all deaths in the world whereby 80 per cent (28 million deaths ) occur in low and middle income countries. WHO’s 2010 estimations indicates that NCDs contribute 27 per cent of all deaths in Tanzania. It is estimated that in 2008 NCDs caused 75.7 and 58.8 deaths in 1,000 people below 60 years. “We are aware of all steps to be taken to contain the situation as stipulated in the WHO FCTC which has been so far ratified by 180 countries which represent nearly 90 per cent of the world population,” Dr Maongezi said. Tanzania ratified the WHO FCTC in 2005, which has been described as comprehensive tool for effective and sustainable tobacco control. The Tanzania Tobacco Control Forum Executive Director, Lutgard Kagaruki said that although Tanzania has ratified WHO FCTC, it is yet to come up with an effective legislation. Ms Kagaruki said that the Tobacco Products (Regulation) Act, which was enacted in 2003 has a number of loopholes that give leeway to the tobacco industry to continue advertising and promoting their products, thus encouraging the use of tobacco especially among the youth. “There is a need for the country to have a legislation that will conform with the requirements of the FCTC,” Ms Kagaruki insisted.