The money will be spent on stalled community development projects in the five villages forming the WMA in the Tanzania s wild life rich district of Serengeti in Mara region. The villages are Robonda, Park-Nyigoti, Natta-Mbiso, Nyichoka and Makundusi.Ikona WMA Chairperson Mr Elias Chama said this was the first time the WMA had received huge sums of money since 2007 when it was established, describing Grumeti Reserves as an exemplary investor. This is a lot of money that we have received at once our villages are anxiously waiting for this money to work on stalled development projects, Mr Chama said. Serengeti District Administrative Secretary Ms Cosmas Qamara urged the WMA and the beneficiary villages to make good use of the money. We are happy that the investor (Grumeti Reserves) has given the money this is a lot of money. It is for development and positive results must be seen, Mr Qamara said.Mr Chama also apologized on behalf of the Ikona leadership and its council members for any of their conducts that led to misunderstanding between them and Grumeti Reserves when talks prior to the signing of the commitment agreement were still underway. We are all human on behalf of Ikona WMA I would like to apologize to the Managing Director of Grumeti Reserves for what happened. We wish to continue having a better relationship, he said.Mr Chama also described Grumeti Reserves as their top investor with great contribution for the development the WMA which is located within the integral part of the Serengeti ecosystem on top of sitting along the route of the great wildebeest migration.Grumeti Reserves has heavily invested in tourism and conservation sectors in the area and the investor also supports local development in many ways, thus making the local villagers reap fruits of conservation.Speaking on behalf of Grumeti Reserves Managing Director Mr Graham Ledger, the Singita Grumeti Fund Relationship Manager Mr Ami Seki said they were delighted to see signing of the commitment agreement after talks that existed for a long time.He thanked the Serengeti DC, Mr Nurdin Babu and DAS Qamara for their roles that contributed to the signing of the agreement which saw immediate disbursement of the over 1.3 bnl-.The payment covers concession fees, bed night fees, hunting quota and community development fund from 2014 to March 2018. Today we (Grumeti Reserves) are indeed happy that finally the commitment agreement has been singed after we were brought together by Serengeti DC and DAS in several meetings, Mr Seki said.The event was also witnessed by several government officials within Serengeti district and members of the IKona WMA. Serengeti DAS Qamara also urged each side to respect the commitment agreement so as to embrace good relationship between the WMA and the investor.