The media stakeholders attending a government and media workshop here yesterday, organised by Misa Tanzania highlighted that although the government had positive intention, some sections in the law are negative. (Sec 6 (2) which is about ownership, gives foreigners a 49 per cent share in a media house. This limits investment in a media house in the country, Tanzania Editors Forum Board Member Mr Jessy Kwayu said. In my opinion, the government should emphasise on content but not ownership. The media practitioner went on to note that the law imposes control over what the media should or should not publish. Journalists will need approval from the government to publish a story, he added.Mr Kwayu also raised fears that the re-licensing currently introduced in the law is purely double licence since owners still have to seek business licence at the municipal council.Pili Mtambalike from the Media Council of Tanzania was concerned that the law contains serious penalty on reporters despite the fact that a particular story might have gone through a number of hands during editing.Mr Deodatus Balile from Jamhuri Newspaper said: This law was introduced to improve professionalism. But the law was silent on the actual source of funding for one of its pillars -- The Media Training Fund. According to the law, the sources of funds will come from grants, gifts and contributions, but Mr Balile argues should there be no donation, this means Journalists will never undergo training. Mr Balile however informed that the responsibilities between the Board and the Independent Media Council established under the law overlaps. There too many gaps, that the media council will ultimately become ineffective. The regulations released by the ministry show that the cost of accessing media accreditation is too high. It costs 100,000/- twice the passport fee that lasts 10 years or Driving Licence issued after three years.What is behind the hike? Acting Director in the Ministry of Information, Culture, Arts and Sports (Newspaper Registration) Mr Patrick Kipangula said the media service Act, 2016 will come into effective operation after the establishment of the Board and the Media Council.The Director said the government resolve to outsource funds for the Training Fund outside the general budget was to make the Fund more independent. Should we allow the government to release money, it means the Controller and Auditor General (CAG) will need to audit the fund on annual basis, he said.