Mayanga assured Stars will advance despite a draw setback. Speaking after the match, Mayanga lauded players for the hard work despite failing to seal a win. He said, however, allowing visitors to score away an early goal was a grave mistake committed by the team. The match has ended in a draw, but this is not the best result to us. My main target right now is making sure all mistakes we committed are rectified before the return away match in Rwanda, said the coach.He said Kigali doesn t pose threat to him and it s from there Stars will advance. He said the opponents capitalized on the mistakes committed by Stars defenders to convert an early goal.The goal and the timewasting tricks that came after that contributed much in making Stars plans fail to reach desired goals. Mayanga said the team resumes training today at the CCM Kirumba stadium.Mayanga said his team will travel to Rwanda on Wednesday. Rwanda s Amavubi netted their goal through Dominique Nshuti on the 17th minute before Himid Mao equalised for Taifa Stars through a spotkick on the 33rd minute.But, the draw was a relief to the visitors as Amavubi coach, Antoine Hey claimed after the end of 90 minutes. He said his players will work hard in order to earn a win when they face again in Kigali as their aim is to play in Championship (CHAN) finals. My players have done extremely well, 1-1 draw is a perfect result for us. My players are young and I am convinced that they will do better, drawing against the COSAFA third placed was not easy, he said.Commenting about Taifa Stars, he said Tanzania is a good team with good players. Nothing is over yet, we still have another 90 minutes to play on our side, we still have an advantage, we are playing at home.It will not be easy for them or for us but we will work very hard and concentrate on our training, he said. The second leg match will be played this Saturday at Kigali in Rwanda.However, the coach was startled to see the match being played at CCM Kirumba which he said was not good at all. The stadium is a complete disaster, but we have nothing to say about this since it s Taifa Stars choice, I wonder why we didn t play in the capital city . he said.According to him, he said he wanted his team to win and they still have a home advantage. Prior to facing Stars, Rwanda s Amavubi have played two friendly matches against Morocco which they both won 2-0 and 3-0.