The title rivals and relegation battle return to the league action after about two weeks break, in which Simba, Yanga, Azam FC and Mbao FC were involved in the CAF club championships and Azam Sports Federation Cup (ASFC).In total, five matches will take place today, Yanga will be at the National Stadium in Dar es Salaam hosting Kagera Sugar in search for three vital points, while Azam will be at their base in Chamazi to face relegation haunted Mbao from Mwanza.Toto African and JKT Ruvu will battle it out at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza, while Majimaji of Songea will play host to Mwadui FC at the Majimaji Stadium in Ruvuma. Kagera Sugar will visit Ruvu Shooting at the Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Coast region.On 59 points, Simba are on the driver s seat, three points ahead of Yanga and 13 points above Azam, who sit second and third respectively.While Simba and Azam have three matches to go, advantage is on Yanga, who have two games in hand, meaning winning all the remaining league matches will see the Jangwani Street lads finish top of the table three points above third arch rivals.A win today will also see Yanga go top of the table on goal difference, but Simba will be provided with an opportunity to return at the summit tomorrow, if they beat African Lyon at the same venue. Already, Yanga have declared to wage an all out war to topple Simba today.Still licking their wounds after a disastrous exit from ASFC, Yanga will come out with all fire blazing and the team Manager, Hafidh Salehe, said Prisons should expect a baptism of fire.Yanga were dethroned from ASFC title following a 1-0 defeat at the hands of Mbao FC in a captivating tournament s semi- final clash at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza last Sunday and they have now turned focus on the Premier League fixture.Speaking in Mwanza on Thursday during their team training at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, Salehe said their team pitched a camp at Geita region where they continued training after their defeat against Mbao. He insisted that the defeat has not derailed them from defending their league title. Right now what really matters to us is to make sure we defend the premier league title. We lost our ASFC title to Mbao last weekend, but now our main focus is to make sure we fight and win our last five remaining league matches, Salehe said.Yanga flew back to Dar es Salaam ready for their clash against Tanzania Prisons. Salehe called on the club members and fans not to give up but they should have confidence in their team.In the first round Young Africans won 1-0 against Tanzania Prisons at Sokoine Memorial Stadium in Mbeya. On Monday, the team s assistant head coach Juma Mwambusi said winning the remaining matches of the league is the main task at the moment, short of it, the team would lose all titles.There are 15 points to chase for Yanga do they win all five remaining matches. The former Tanzania Prison, Mbeya City and Moro United coach, hopes his team will bounce back and win their remaining matches and the championship altogether. Tanzania Prisons are placed tenth with 31 points after playing 27 games.It is not only the race for the title that makes this weekend league matches draw much attention, fight to stay in the league also is worth to consider this week. The match between relegation haunted Toto African and JKT will witness the other side of coin.With five matches remaining, JKT Ruvu are still at the bottom of the table with 23 points while Majimaji with 26 points are slightly placed above them at the 15th position. Also relegation threatened Toto African are placed 14th with 26 points.Ndanda FC, who travel to Shinyanga to face hosts Stand United are not far from the danger zone either. The Mtwara-based side is placed 13th with 30 points while Mbao FC who face third-placed Azam in Dar es Salaam also face a relegation danger with 30 points.