The horrendous accident claimed lives of more than 700 people; while 114 others survived, plunging the country into mourning and grief. With the whole country shocked and at standstill, the government went on to declare three days of national mourning.And, the world joined Tanzania in mourning their dead as governments across the globe sent envoys, while others relayed their condolences. According to survivors, the ship was over loaded as it exceeded its 433-passenger carrying capacity.And, at 8am, with Mwanza in sight, the ship began to sway before it capsized. Unfortunately, while the accident occurred there were no enough lifejackets.The vessel remained on the surface, partially buoyant. But, then rescuers, who could hear trapped passengers screaming and banging, ignored the pleas of fishermen, and decided to drill a hole into the hull to rescue those trapped inside.The effect of the drilling, however, released the air which had kept the hull afloat and shortly after 3pm the boat sank. Several hundred bodies were extracted with great difficulty by divers people in the packed third class compartment of the ship had linked arms in solidarity before they died and it proved extremely difficult to break them free.Most of the bodies were buried in mass graves in Mwanza. An old lady in Kagera Region collapsed and died after learning that her daughter and three grandchildren had perished.As the country marks 21 years since the fatal accident, some wananchi shared their experiences and proposed for pre-cautions to be taken in order to avoid the occurrence of such accidents in future.Tanzanian beauty queen and top fashion model, Flaviana Matata who lost her mother during the shocking incident wrote on her instagram page yesterday that she has stopped hosting commemorations to mark the day.Ms Matata said for last year s commemorations, the government took over the memorials and promised to host events to raise safety awareness, whenever possible. I and my family will commemorate the day at family level, as we used to do five years ago, we would like to thank everyone, relatives and partners who have been supporting us, she wrote.She added that it was crucial to take great care of vessels safety and take precautions to prevent such tragedies rom reoccurring. Ms Audoksia Mugisha, a former student at Rugambwa Girls Secondary School said she lost her friends in the accident.Ms Mugisha said 21 years after the accident, still many people who lost their beloved endure agony because there have been high records of accidents across the country. As we mark 21 years of MV Bukoba accident, we should come together as a nation and set strong strategies that will help us to end accidents in the country, she said. Mr Abdul Mohamed Zaki, a resident of Mwanza told the Daily News that May 21, means a lot to Tanzanians especially to Lake Zone residents.He said the date reminds them of the dark day when they lost their beloved ones. Whenever I pass through Igoma, the place where our brothers and sisters were laid to rest, I feel very bad.I think of my friends who perished in that fatal accident. I always pray to God to give them eternal peace, he said. Mr Julius Mutakinikwa, a resident of Dar es Salaam said May 21, has been a day of sorrow and pain to his family because they lost their beloved ones.He requested the government to always review regulations and principles that govern marine transport. Today, Tanzanians are expected to conduct prayers in various areas in the country in remembrance of the fallen wananchi .