The officer, who was on his annual leave, had just driven back home in his car during a dark night from an outing at Kinyerezi on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam when he met his untimely death. The hoodlums were lurking in dark shadows awaiting his arrival. The murderers used heavy objects which included axes and pieces of metal bars to bludgeon their victim. Indeed, the Police Force must be wondering who is attacking and killing its members devil-may-care style. Armed bandits kill police officers nearly every month in this country. Most of the killings occur in Coast Region and the city of Dar es Salaam. Some killings have occurred in Tanga Region. Perhaps the most daring attack mounted by criminals occurred in July, last year, when the bandits raided Sitakishari Police Station, and killed several police officers and a civilian. The cut-throats also carted away several firearms, some of which are yet to be recovered. Those who trifle with the Police Force must pay a price. The motive behind the Kinyerezi killing remains a mystery. Nevertheless, the Police Force must track the hoodlums and apprehend them. They must be arraigned. If they are found guilty for their nefarious felony they must face the full wrath of the law. It is incredible that anyone in their right mind should commit such a heinous crime. This country is also home to armed robbers who, in some cases, kill their victims. These miscreants strike even in broad daylight. This social evil, it appears, has become an incurable cancer in this country. The saddest part of this unfortunate scenario is that not only do these psychopaths deprive their victims of their hardearned prosperity; they also maim or kill people. The current crop of armed robbers is, to say the least, ruthless, merciless, and evil. Before these times, these evil forces in this country carried out their nefarious and diabolical activities at midnight. What shocks this nation is what appears to be a large number of illegal firearms in highly dangerous hands. These include AK47s, and high velocity pistols. Some of the guns have been stolen from police officers from military armories in neighbouring countries. What the Police Force should do is mobilize good Samaritans to show its agents where illegal gun holders are located and, if possible, where they hide their arms. Bandits and other gun totters live in homes where it is difficult to hide their activities.