JKCI Public Relations Officer Anna Nkinda, confirmed the death of Mr Mwambungu who was admitted to the hospital on May 10. He died at around 10 am yesterday.The deceased s eldest son, Hamidu Mwambungu, said his father was suffering from kidney problems for more than a year and it s the cause of his death. He said the family continues with burial arrangements, but were yet to establish when the burial ceremony would take place. We are yet to decide with other family members on the burial ceremony. After meeting with other members, then we will be in a good position to reveal it to the public. But hopefully next week he will be laid to rest, he noted.He further said mourners are gathered at the deceased s residence at Tabata Kimanga.Meanwhile, Mwalimu Nyerere s first Private Secretary, Mr Paul Sozigwa (84), died at JKCI on Thursday night.Ms Nkinda said the deceased was transferred to the institute on April 25, this year, at night from Mwaisela Ward at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH), where he was receiving treatment for ailments. Sozigwa was brought to JKCI with heart problems, but after receiving treatment he recovered. He remained at the hospital receiving treatment for some other diseases that until today (yesterday) he died, Ms Nkinda said.The deceased s son, Pastor Moses Sozigwa of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), Mtoni Parish, said his father had been suffering from various diseases including heart disease, stomach problems and also other problems including memory loss arising from old age.He further said the family continues with burial arrangements and mourners are gathered at Mtoni Mtongani Lutheran Church famously known as Kwaya ya Lulu .Chama Cha Mapinduzi (CCM) has sent a condolence message to the family of the deceased in which the party s Ideology and Publicity Secretary Humphrey Polepole said they have received the news with shock. Mzee Sozigwa served to provide services for sound stewardship within the party and the government before and after independence and he served as the first secretary of Mwalimu Nyerere, said Polepole. He said the party will remember and honour him.He was very keen with principles, ideologies and integrity of leadership within the party.Mr Polepole said, CCM Secretary General, Mr Abdulrahman Kinana, sent a condolence message to relatives, family and friends of the deceased and that his dedicated service will be honoured.