In an internal memo, Ophir s Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and MD, Nick Cooper, states that the local businessman played a good role in his company s access to gas Blocks One, Three and Four within the region. It should be noted that from the first day we made it very clear that we know Mr Mabanga very well. (He) was our man in Tanzania, who played a good role in ensuring we acquire the assets there, he states in the memo sent to Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben Van Beurden.Royal Dutch Shell is a Netherlands based conglomerate in The Hague that acquired shares in Ophir s three gas blocks. The new move by Ophir comes just days after the High Court s Commercial Division ordered determination on merits of the suit over interest rights in the three gas blocks filed by Mr Mabanga, against Ophir Energy PLC, Ophir Services PTY Limited and BG Tanzania Limited.Mr Cooper stated that it was a fact that Mr Mabanga, who was introduced to Ophir by one of their business partners, Mr Tokyo Sexwale, also a prominent businessman and politician in South Africa, used his connections to secure the assets (the three gas blocks) in Tanzania. As you might be aware doing business in Africa sometimes requires more than financial muscles, because you need to have good guys who know how to secure good deals. In this case, Mr Mabanga was our good guy before the big bosses decided to pay him off, he states.Ophir s boss states in the memo dated May 9, 2017 that Mr Mabanga was assigned and paid during the whole period when he was handling all their entry moves to Tanzania.He stated that the big bosses decided to pay him off to pave the way for further development of their assets in Tanzania. However, he states, such situation could not suggest that there was any wrong doing in acquiring the assets.Mr Cooper states that he was also aware that there might have been unofficial agreements which granted Mabanga some stakes around five per cent in each block, but such agreements are time barred because eventually he agreed voluntarily to settle for what he was offered.He stated that it was also true that in the process to settling with him someone might have uttered something very unfair, but that was now a history and they could not reverse the past, focusing to ensure any damage caused by Mabanga is fully contained through legal channel. In doing so we need to remain focused and share all necessary details that will eventually help our legal team.There have been several meetings to discuss how to handle his claims, but at the end it appears our legal team has decided that we defend our position in court, he states.Mr Cooper states also that on whether he (Mabanga) was cheated by Ophir s guys about the actual value of his shares is debatable. He says he was not in a position to comment further because this issue was handled by his predecessors. At this particular time, our legal team can be in a position to give us their assessment on the possibilities of winning. We are waiting for their legal opinions before the beginning of a full hearing, he concluded.When reached for comment, Mr Mabanga said such memo is clear vindication of his claim now before the Commercial Court of Tanzania and many others will be submitted at the hearing. I knew all along that there were irregularities and conspiracy by the Oil and Gas majors, so it is shocking to learn that they are still conspiring in seeking additional sensitive information to deny my rights through a court of law, the businessman said.