The MPs from both ruling party CCM and the opposition camp made the call when debating the 2017/18 budget estimates for the Ministry of Lands, Housing and Human Settlement Development which was passed yesterday noon.Mr Yusuf Salim Hussein (Chambani- CUF) noted that only 15 per cent of the entire land in the country was surveyed, surely with that situation in hand land disputes were inevitable. According to Mr Hussein, while plans to embark on the surveys are formulated, the government should start with repossessing underdeveloped plots and hand them to wandering pastoralists.Mr Omar Kigua (Kilindi-CCM) said that his constituency is one of the many areas in the country plagued by land conflicts mainly between farmers and pastoralists. Looking at it, you will realise that the problem erupted due to lack of land demarcations, he said.The solution then is surveying the country as soon as possible and create national land use plan. I know the process has started in Morogoro, but it has to be fast tracked to the rest of the country, he said. Mr Joseph Selasini (Rombo- Chadema) said that due to lack of strategic land plan in place, foreign nationals are taking swathes of land on investment card but in turn lease to locals. Bacause of corruption and mismanagement of resources, we have seen some of the so called Chinese investors in this country buying land and instead of developing it they are leasing it to locals who are looking for arable plots to farm, he said.Mr Gibson Meiseyeki (Arumeru West-Chadema) noted that the problem in Tanzania was not scarcity of land, but how best to manage and utilise it. Experts, local and foreign are saying that the land problem in Tanzania lies on strategies.It is a shame for a huge country like ours to have running battles between pastoralists and farmers or even facing a famine or shortage of food, he said. Ms Martha Umbulla (Special Seats-CCM) noted that the demand for land in the country is increasing and it will continue to shoot as the population grows. Mr Abdallah Chikota (Nanyamba- CCM) said the first step of realising strategic land management plan was to recruit enough land staff in local government authorities. Local authorities are heavily understaffed in this area; the good work that will be done in the central government will crumble at local level so the ministry should seek presidential permit to recruit land officers. Farmers and pastoralists are all Tanzanians, but if we are not going to come up with a good and executable land use plan, the two groups will continue to fight each other, she said.Addressing concerns raised by MPs, the Minister for Lands, Housing and Human Development Settlement, Mr William Lukuvi, ordered his officials to stop construction of houses in all non-smoker areas. Sixty-seven per cent reduction in levy on land survey will be essential in addressing sprawling unplanned settlements in the country, by enabling many Tanzanians own formalised farms and plots, he said. The Minister also said that the government in cooperation with private sector has embarked on land survey missions across the country using cutting-edge equipment.He also assured MPs that his office had started repossession of underdeveloped land, but they will now increase the pace of the exercise. On shortage of land experts in local government levels, Mr Lukuvi told the House that before asking for recruitment permit, his office alongside the President s Office Regional Administration and Local Government Authorities need to review the distribution of officials. While some areas have no officials at all, two districts of Ilemela and Nyamagana in Mwanza have more than 100 land officers. We have to make some review and redistribution before assessing the shortage and ask for recruitment permit. Meanwhile, unlike in other ministerial budgets which have been passed with some tug of war between MPs and the ministers or even raised party wrangles, all MPs thanked Mr Lukuvi and his deputy Ms Angelina Mabula for their commitment and hard work. I believe, other ministers will have a thing or two to learn from Mr Lukuvi. Even the opposition showered him and Ms Mabula with praise, and that is completely out of their commitment and nothing else, said the leader of the Opposition in the House Mr Freeman Mbowe (Hai-Chadema).