Declaring the 52nd Annual General Meeting of the African Development Bank Group open, which is being held for the first time in India, Modi stressed on stronger ties with African countries and said the continent is a top priority for India. India is working with Japan to support development in Africa.I recall my conversation with Japanese Prime Minister (Shinzo) Abe when I was in Tokyo last year. In our joint declaration, we mentioned about Asia-Africa growth corridor and proposed further conversation with our brothers and sisters of Africa, the prime minister said in his inaugural speech.The pitch comes close on the heels of China launching its multi-billion dollar One Belt, One Road (OBOR) initiative, a pet project of Chinese President Xi Jinping, which aims to connect the Eurasian landmass and Indo-Pacific maritime routes. India s partnership with Africa is based on a model of cooperation which is responsive to the needs of African countries, PM Modi said while speaking at the 52nd African Development Bank (AfDB) meet in Gujarat s Gandhinagar . After assuming office in 2014, I have made Africa a top priority for India s foreign and economic policy, Modi told the gathering of 3,000 delegates mostly from Africa, which also included heads of state and senior government functionaries. India has had strong ties with Africa for centuries and the rich Swahili language includes some Hindi words, he added.The Prime Minister also said that the commerce between India and Africa will be of ideas and services. Africa-India trade multiplied in last 15 years. It doubled in the last five years to reach nearly seventy-two billion US dollars in 2014-15 I am proud to say that there is no country in Africa that hasn t been visited by an Indian minister in the last three years, PM Modi said, adding, I along with President and Vice-President have together visited 16 African countries in the past. Indian and Japanese research institutions have come up with a vision document, which was prepared in consultation with think-tanks of Africa.I understand that the vision document will be presented in the board meeting later. The idea is that India and Japan along with other willing partners work jointly in sectors like skill development, information technology, manufacturing, health and connectivity, Modi said.He said Africa figured on top of India s priority as a growth pole. India s partnership with Africa is based on a model of cooperation which is responsive to the needs of African countries, Modi said.He said India is the fifth largest investor in Africa as in the last 20 years it has invested USD 54 billion. Africa-India trade has multiplied in the last 15 years, it has doubled in the last five years to reach near 72 billion dollars in 2014-15, he said.