Speaking during the launching ceremony at Nissan Tanzania in Dar es Salaam yesterday, the chairperson of the event s organizing committee, Hidaya Kamanga said 18 local drivers and three more from Kenya will be engaged in a speeding showdown mostly to be staged in dusty roads around Bagamoyo and Msata in Coast Region.She said much of the Saturday s competition will be held in Bagamoyo covering mostly Zinga and historic Kaole ruins. The second leg on Sunday, May 21, will revists slave trade routes around Msata, Lugoba and Bago near the Chalinze-Segera Highway.She added that three Kenyan drivers were also expected to race in the event after completing the entry procedures. We expect three drivers from Kenya to come and spice up the competition challenge. They will be unveiled officially after getting official letter from Kenyan motorsports authority, she said.The notable entries, according to her, include Gerald Miller from Arusha, who is the top-placed drivers in this year s seeding points table, Dharam Pandya, who is placed second and Gurpal Sandhu, also among the country s outstanding drivers.She also named three members of the Stado Rally Team who have bounced back and named them as Ahmed Huwel, Samir Nahdi Shanto and Davis Mosha. The Stado team members have contributed much in making this rally a success by bankrolling it.We thank them for the huge support, she said. Drivers who have confirmed participation, according to Kamanga come Arusha, Dar es Salaam, Iringa, Kilimanjaro, Morogoro and Tanga, besides the three expected Kenyans. In short the majority of local and international drivers and their cars are expected to battle for the event s silverware, she said. Christopher Henning, the Managing Director of Nissan Tanzania, one of the event s associate sponsors said he was delighted to see his company involved in motorsports as stakeholders.He said his company has for over seven decades involved in motor sports and was one of the big players during the famous East African Safari Rally. Dharam Pandya, one of the drivers and partly organizer of the rally said he was heading to Bagamnoyo for a number one position after finishing second last year.Pandya who will be navigated by Awadh Bafadhil in Puma Energy backed Mitsubishi Evo 9, played down bad weather threat saying it would be perfect for him and team mates. The much talked about weather has not affected the rally yet though I feel that threat has now passed through, said Dharama Pandya, the team s leader. The first part of the programme, according to the organizers will start on Saturday, May 20 with documentation and scrutineering of the rally cars