The new degree will expand the talent and qualification of thousands of men and women seeking to become professional personal assistants or secretaries in public and private institutions. Vice President Ms Samia Suluhu Hassan said at the Tanzania Personal Secretary Association (TAPSEA) Annual general conference here that the training will help the emerging industry expand to meet growing demands. “You need to know your boundaries. In addition, as secretaries you must demonstrate professionalism in any office you work ... you should know you are the true image of your boss and office,” the Vice President and former personal secretary told the delegates at the meeting here on Friday. Ms Hassan was concerned that a number of personal secretaries had been tarnishing images of their bosses and companies due to their unbearable practices. She said worse noting is that some are even encouraging sexual misconducts in the office. “You have to reduce this habit and be watchful,” she said, urging them to now further their academics following the new academic programme. Minister of State in the President’s Office, Public Service Management and Good Governance Ms Angellah Kairuki explained that the new degree course will be administered by the National Council for Technical Education (NACTE). Ms Kairuki said the government was equally reviewing the civil servant structure to allow new promotions and upgrading of wages. “The last time this exercise was conducted in 1958 and 2000. This is critical to improve the welfare of public servants,” she said. According to the minister, all necessary communication with Nacte has been made and that the programme will start during the coming academic year. TAPSEA Chairperson Ms Zuhura Songambele told the vice president earlier that the profession was facing a number of challenges including lack of undergraduate degree training. “Our sector faces a number of challenges. Most of us have to go back home at midnight and we have no extra duty allowances,” she noted. Meanwhile, the Chairperson said the association was set to build its investment complex in Dodoma which will consist of an administration block, shops, supermarket and a 2000 seater conference hall. A total of 16bn/- will be spent in the construction of the project, she said.