“An audit conducted in these authorities found out that there were officials who pocketed the said amount, I have directed the Treasury to submit the report to the PCCB for action,” Dr Magufuli instructed. Adding; “District Executive Directors on their part ought to act on all individuals who were part of the embezzlement; everyone should carry his/her burden.” Dr Magufuli made the directives in Dar ea Salaam yesterday when officiating at the 33rd Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Association of Local Authorities in Tanzania (ALAT) at the Julius Nyerere International Convention Centre (JNICC). The Head of State informed the audience at the meeting that even his mother was cheated in the fraud, where she was listed as among beneficiaries of the farm inputs. “The old woman cannot even walk without the support of a walking stick, but these officials listed her as among farmers who received the farm inputs; when she was asked later on whether she received the vouchers for inputs, she thought she was being asked about mobile phone top-up vouchers. “When asked did you get the vouchers she responded yes; I usually send my grandchildren to buy for me vouchers (mobile phone top-up coupons) to make calls,” quoting her mother, Dr Magufuli told the stunned audience. Dr Magufuli further cited a village chairman in his area, who passed away ten years ago but his name featured on the list of beneficiaries of the inputs. On the other hand, President Magufuli said the country used to fork-out 381bn/- each year to pay salaries for over 20,000 ghost workers and employees with phony academic credentials who have since been scrapped from the payroll. According to the President, audits in other areas found out that there were 65,000 non-existing students in primary and secondary schools and 8,500 in higher institutions of learning who were set to receive funding from the government. The audits revealed further that through the Tanzania Social Action Fund (TASAF), there were 57,000 phantom households where crooked officials were siphoning the funds. Dr Magufuli stressed that the Fifth Phase Government will continue tightening the noose on wasteful spending and misappropriation of public funds, to enable the government boost national coffers for development projects. “It is only through sealing the loopholes of corruption and spendthrift that we can raise adequate funds for development,” he stated. President Magufuli further assured that the government would during the current financial year, disburse all the 308bn/- allocated for development projects in local government authorities. Since President Magu fuli assumed power almost two years ago, monthly revenue collections have increased from about 850m/- to 1.3trl/- and through the free primary and secondary education policy, the government has ever since dished out 465bn/- for the purpose. Funds allocated to provide loans for students in tertiary institutions have also increased from 365bn/- to 483bn/- for 125,000 students from 98,000 students in the previous year, he stated. “The government owed 1.3trl/- to social security schemes, but as we speak we have settled 1.2trl/-, revenue collections have increased and public servants are now receiving their salaries on time,” Dr Magufuli stated. He informed the participants at the meeting that the World Bank had agreed to provide loans amounting to 891bn/- to execute Phase II, III and IV of the Dar es Salaam Bus Rapid Transit System. The projects are aimed at improving public transport in the country’s commercial capital. He was equally happy that the construction of the 7.06trl/- Standard Gauge Railway from Dar es Salaam-Morogoro-Dodoma (Makutopora) will be fully funded through national coffers. Speaking earlier, Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa assured President Magufuli that all directives on improving social services and increasing revenue collection in local councils were being amply implemented.