According to the Chinese leader, the 21st century Silk Road economic belt has been given much emphasis in the ongoing National Congress of the Communist Party of China, CPC, in order to reinforce it for the benefit of its members. “Openness brings progress, while self-seclusion leaves one behind.” said, President Xi. This project was officially launched in Beijing in May this year, with the aim of prioritizing policy consultation, trade promotion, infrastructure connectivity, financial cooperation and people-to-people exchanges. “We should pursue belt and road initiative as a priority; give equal emphasis to bringing in and going global following the principle of achieving shared growth through discussion and collaboration, and increase openness and collaboration in building innovation capacity.” Africa is one of the greatest beneficiaries of the initiative, given the traditional problems of backward infrastructure, connectivity, lack of funds to finance projects and trade barriers. President Xi said China’s mission is to promote shared prosperity and assured that China will never use its economic might to interfere with the sovereignty of other nations. He said China is in the business of sharing its prosperity with the rest of the world and is not interested in geopolitical games. Delegates attending the Congress retreated to various committees to discuss the report which detailed achievements of president Xi’s government in the last five years, saying this was also an opportunity to dig and delve into his plans in the next 5 years. In one of the committees, Chinese Foreign Affairs Minister, Wang Yi, lauded the Beijing-based administration, particularly for giving much emphasis to the OBOR initiative during President Xi’s first term in office. In their opinion, Belt and Road framework represents a clear and a beautiful vision that captures the aspirations of the Chinese people as a whole. “OBOR is one of the most important initiatives by China. It demonstrates our determination for harmony and a win-win cooperation.” said Wang. Wang Yi disclosed that his country recognizes that more and more friends of China speak highly of the Chinese-led initiative and its idea of development. He welcomed Xi’s pledge of more support to the initiative in the next five years, saying this will demonstrate that China is positively and actively taking part in global affairs. During the launch of the initiative in Beijing, President Xi announced the availability of 100 Billion US dollars for cooperation projects in countries on the new Silk Road. In this meeting, Tanzania was represented by the Minister of Works, Transport and Communications, Professor Makame Mbarawa alongside 28 heads of states and governments who graced the occasion and later signed several pacts with China. Proposed by President Xi Jinping in 2013, the Belt and Road Initiative aims to build a trade and infrastructure network connecting Asia with Europe and Africa along the ancient Silk Road trade routes.