Convener of heart surgery in Lions Club of Dar es Salaam (Host), Dr Rajni Kanabar, said yesterday at Julius Nyerere International Airport that the baby was very sick and was a very high risk patient for heart surgery which was not available in East Africa. “This is the true story of a 5 months old baby Abdulmajid Jamal Mohamed who was born with Multiple Heart Defects, which the big artery arising from the left chamber of the heart known as Aorta which had interrupted non-development defects at the arch of the Aorta (Interrupted Aortic Arch, at three different levels (Interrupted Aortic Arch Type A), large Patent Ducts Arterious [defective communication between aorta and pulmonary artery” he said . He said the baby had a large canal type of ventricular Septal Defect [big hole in the heart] with moderate Pulmonary Hypertension and minimal hypoplastic Aorta valve and also had Broncho Pneumonia and was also in Cardiac Failure and, saying that the baby was also under nourished because of the heart defects. “We requested Pediatric Cardiologist, Dr. Naiz Majani at JKI Heart Institute to treat and stabilise this baby for at least two weeks before she is fit to fly to JAYPEE Hospital in New Delhi, with which we have a long association with Lions Club and Regency Medical Centre. Even heart specialists at JAYPEE Hospital in New Delhi informed us that the chance of survival of this baby is very minimal, but they decided to give it a try,” said Dr Kanabar, who is the Chairman of Regency Medical Center. He said the Lions Club of DSM (HOST) through their fellow members Lion Shiraz Rashid and one well wisher Mr. Vijay Nair of Raj Logistics Ltd. came out with generous donations to make the trip to India possible, adding that since the baby was critically sick and needed oxygen during the flight, Pediatric Cardiologist Dr. Ali Amour from Zanzibar was sent as an escort along with the mother and an elder sister of the mother in case the baby did not make it. He said for the first ten days, the baby had to be treated with IV anti-biotic to clear chest infection and also had anti-cardiac failure treatment at JAYPEE Hospital He said the baby was successfully operated by one of the most experienced Pediatric Heart Surgeons – Dr. Rajesh Sharma and his team, including dedicated Pediatric Cardiologist Dr. Ashutoh Marwah who looked after post operative care of the baby until they came back to Tanzania Dr Kanabar said in the Intensive Care Unit where the baby stayed for almost 15 days, they had to closely monitor the progress for five more days after the delicate surgery, where the doctors hoped that the lungs will be able to function again normally after such a long heart surgery. He said that by the grace of God everything went well and finally landed at the Dar es Salaam International Airport with a “new lease of life”!! “In my experience of three and half decades of facilitating children with Repairable Heart Defects in the USA and India under the banner of Lions Club of DSM (Host) and RMC, this case has been the most complicated, with very slim chances of survival. “But where there is Power of giving, spirit of selfless service with care, compassion and commitment and belief in God miracles do happen. This is a miraculous story of this baby,” said Dr Kanabar. On his side, Lion Mahmoud Mukhtar thanked various donors and especially Dr. Ali Amour, the Pediatric Cardiologist from Zanzibar and Dr. Naiz Majani who took great care of the baby while at the JKI Heart Institute