Prof Mbarawa made the call during a surprise visit to the SGR construction site on Friday night, stressing the need for Reli Assets Holding Company (RAHCO) and Tanzania Railway Limited (TRL) to closely monitor and supervise the contractor. “TRL and RAHCO should ensure that they stay at the construction sites day and night to supervise the constructor (YAPI MERKEZI) and ensure the work is finished within the scheduled period,” he said. Prof Mbarawa also said that the authorities bear the obligation to ensure that all experts and workers for the projects stay and work twenty four hours. He asked the Project Consultant to supervise the contractor and ensure the work he carries is perfect and bears the expected fruits. “If the contractor fails to work to our satisfaction, we will have to dismiss him right away,” he said, commending the initial work being undertaken at the SGR sites. “We need to be very keen especially at this stage where we are setting up the foundation of the SGR. Close supervision is therefore fundamental to ensure a good foundation for the project,” he said adding that if the contractor messes up at the initial stage, the whole SGR will be of no value in future. On the other hand, the Minister also called upon the contractor to observe the agreed specifications as he executes the project. “This is my massage to you. First of all, I want to thank you for the hard work; it is a very good job but you need to work according to the specifications which we agreed in the contract. If you are not going to do according to our specifications, then we are going to say goodbye to you,” he said. He, however, applauded the contractor for demonstrating good work at the initial stages stressing the need to keep up the pace. “I will be visiting the sites anytime to check on the progress,” he said. The Minister said that the construction of the SGR from Dar es Salaam to Dodoma set to be completed by the end of 2019 is expected to bring big achievements in terms of the country’s development and the citizens in specific. The construction of the 300km SGR Dar es Salaam to Morogoro is worth 2.8tr/- as that of 420 km Morogoro to Dodoma is worth 3.6trl/-. Upon completion of the railway, the train is set to spend two hours from Dar es Salaam to Morogoro and eight hours from Dar es Salaam to Mwanza cruising at 160 kilometers per hour, the highest speed in Africa.