Simba who regained helm following their 1-1 draw with Mtibwa, are still ahead of their closest challengers Young Africans and Mtibwa Sugar despite tying on 12-point haul. The absence of their towering striker John Bocco and central defender Salim Mbonde who both picked injuries in the last Sunday’s battle against Mtibwa Sugar is a big blow to the team. The club’s Information and Communications Officer, Haji Manara, said Bocco will miss the game against Njombe Mji to be held at the Uhuru Stadium on Saturday, but the case is more serious to Mbonde who will miss the Saturday’s game and three others due to knee injury. Bocco and Mbonde joined the club’s list of injuries that also include defender Shomari Kapombe and goalkeeper Said Mohamed ‘ Nduda’, both are yet to serve the team since they joined it from Azam FC and Mtibwa Sugar respectively. Manara, however, assured fans and supporters of good results despite missing the services of the two players. He said they are looking forward to return to their winning ways so as to stretch their lead. Manara also unveiled that Joseph Omog’s squad will commence preparations for the Saturday’s game tomorrow. He also continued to refute prevailing reports that the club was planning to fire their Cameroonian tactician Omog, insisting that the Cameroonian tactician and his Ugandan assistant, Jackson Mayanja are there to stay. Simba have been refuting reports that the club intended to part ways with the Cameroonian tactician after what some of the leaders and supporters blamed him for unsatisfactory performance despite being at the helm. In another development, Manara broke ice on the absence of their two strikers, Mohamed Ibrahim and Burundian Laudit Mavugo, saying the two didn’t play in the past games because they were attending family problems. He also assured supporters that the two would play in the coming games starting with next game against Njombe Mji. Meanwhile, Simba has congratulated the newly elected Tanzania Premier League Board (TPLB) leadership under the leadership of Chairman Clement Sanga and his Vice-Chairman Shani Mligo. Simba through Manara said they would cooperate with the new leaders as they believe Sanga will deliver in accordance with regulations of the board and will be fair to all clubs.