Before Kisutu Resident Magistrate’s Court in Dar es Salaam, the accused faced two counts related to accumulation of 500m/- wealth against her lawful earning. The prosecution alleged that the accused inappropriately owns properties, including 19 motor vehicles and maintains a life style beyond her income. Before Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi, the TRA employee denied the charges and was released on bail, with one surety signing a 20m/- bond. The case was adjourned to November 7, when it comes for preliminary hearing, as investigations into the matter are complete. Prosecuting, Principal State Attorney Vitalis Peter told the court that the accused committed the offence on diverse dates between March 21 and June 30, 2016 within the city. Being a public servant, Jennifer was found in ownership of 19 motor vehicles whose value is disproportionate with her lawful income. The prosecutor named the vehicles as two Toyota Rav4, Toyota Dyna Truck, Toyota Vitz, Toyota Ipsum, two Toyota Wish, Toyota Mark II, Toyota Mark X, Toyota Regiusage, two Toyota Estima, Toyota Alex, Toyota Noah, Toyota Crown, Toyota Hiace, Toyota Passo and two Suzuki Carries. All the vehicles are valued at 197.6m/-, the prosecution alleged. During the same period, as TRA employee, the prosecution alleged that Jennifer maintained the over 330m/- life style, which she could not account for as per her lawful income. Meanwhile, four Zanzibaris appeared before the same court yesterday, accused of unlawfully transporting and possessing four pieces of elephant tusks, the government trophies, valued at 33m/-. Selemani Msomi, Filo Bakari, Kizito Mboje and Rashid Ally were not allowed to respond to the charges after their arraignment before Principal Resident Magistrate Respecious Mwijage because their charges fall under the Economic and Organised Crime Control Act. The magistrate ordered the accused to remain in remand until November 7. Investigations into the case, according to the prosecution led by State Attorney Elizabeth Mkunde, have not been completed. It is alleged that on October 2, this year, at Kitunda area in Mjini Magharibi region, Zanzibar, the accused were found in an illegal possession of elephant tusks valued at 33,735,000/-. Between September 1 and October 2, this year, at various places in Tanga, Dar es Salaam and Zanzibar, the accused allegedly transported the government trophies without licence from the Director of Wildlife.