The round once again renews long rivalry existed between Arusha and Dar es Salaam who dominated the wheeling showdown for over four decades. The one-day rally, which goes as Alpha Zero Rally, has brought back Harri Singh trio; Guljit, Ajminder and Rajpar Dhani from Kilimanjaro and their presence likely to make the rally a three-region show. This time driving showdown will be staged in Kigamboni area at area known Mwongozo Estate, according to the Chairman of the organising committee, Irfaan Aladin. The national level rally returns to Kigamboni after a decade as the last event staged there was in 2006, almost eleven years ago. The event’s organisers are Dar es Salaam Motor Sports Club (DMSC), one of the oldest clubs in East Africa. The event’s Chairman informed the ‘Daily News’ yesterday that the choice of Kigamboni aimed at giving residents of the area real excitement of the wheeling business. “Motor rally is one of the best entertaining outdoor sports, therefore, hope sport’s fans and residents of Kigamboni will enjoy watching drivers in spectacular actions in the area’s environs,” said Aladin. But, according to Aladin, the organisers hope to see all top seeded drivers participate in Alpha Zero Rally as it serves as the penultimate stage of the National Rally Championship series. Joining the top seeded drivers is Harrinder Deere from Maji Bora team who is heading for another surprise after a good show in the fifth round held in Bagamoyo two months ago. Deere who will be navigated by Moses Matovu in Subaru N12, likely to challenge the top seeded drivers, including Gerald Miller who is at the race helm. Other tough contenders for the title are Dharam Pandya, Samir Nahdi Shanto and Gurpal Sandhu from Arusha. Deere will be trying to prove to doubters he is classy driver and a force to reckon with in motor-sports. After Alpha Zero Rally, Mororogo will host the final round of the NRC in November this year, the event which will decide who deserves the best driver’s crown of the 2017 Harrinder Deere season.