On the other hand, the Architects and Quantity Surveyors Registration Board (AQRB) has been directed to deregister all firms and individuals found to be engaged in corruption when seeking tenders for consultancy in construction projects. “Many people are shunning away from your services, particularly those with small projects, because of exorbitant fees. It is high time the board set indicative charges for consultation,” the Minister for Works, Transport and Communications, Prof Makame Mbarawa, instructed. Speaking at the official opening of the 28th continuing professional development organized by AQRB, Prof Mbarawa also instructed the board to deregister or suspend companies and individuals who had been giving out bribes to win tenders. “If you have evidence that a registered company or professional architects, quantity surveyors and other related experts in the industry are violating ethics, don’t waste time, just delist them and this will teach them a lesson,” the minister remarked emphatically. The minister pointed out that that there were many opportunities for local experts in the ongoing infrastructure projects, urging them to consider placing young professionals in the projects to enable them acquire practical skills. “It is high time upcoming professionals are deployed in the construction of flyovers and standard gauge railway projects and this will provide them with added skills,” he stated. Prof Mbarawa further urged the experts to give professional advice to large and small projects like small buildings on mitigation measures against earthquakes, especially in tremor-prone areas. The professional seminar by the AQRB is held under the theme: “Mitigation of Earthquakes, Technical Audits and Maintenance in the Construction Industry.” Earlier, the Acting Registrar of AQRB, Quantity Surveyor (QS) Albert Munuo, informed the minister that since the board was established in 1998, it had deregistered 235 professionals and 49 firms for various malpractices. During financial year 2016/2017, according to QS Munuo, the board inspected 2,206 construction projects countrywide and found out that observance to existing laws and regulations was at 73 per cent, one per cent higher than the 72 per cent recorded in the previous year. “Due to several irregularities that were uncovered, the board issued warnings to 543 projects while 94 were stopped and 85 of them were fined,” the expert explained. QS Munuo decried shortage of professionals in the field, explaining that since its establishment, the board had registered 1,317 professionals and 354 companies, noting that the number was not adequate to cater for the booming construction industry. Moving a vote of thanks at the event, a lecturer at the Ardhi University (ARU), Dr Geraldine Kikwasi, pleaded with the government to include local professionals in major construction and infrastructure projects being undertaken by the state.