Simba reclaimed the driver’s seat with 11 points, the same as Mtibwa Sugar and Azam, but superior goals average helped Simba over their closest challengers. It is obvious the 7-0 Ruvu Shooting drubbing and three more in their 3-0 win over Mwadui play role in their goal advantage. CCM Kambarage stadium has been a lucky venue for Simba striker, Shiza Kichuya, the man who netted the opener for the visitors in the early minutes. It was Kichuya who scored the winning goal when the teams met there in the last season. It was the second win of the fifth round after six other games ended in draws. Ndanda FC were the only side to pocket maximum three points on Saturday at Nangwanda Stadium. The game at CCM Kambarage Stadium saw both teams playing a cautious game at the start in order to avoid early minutes’ scare. As the minutes went by, Simba began to raid Stand United goal and looked determined to win the game with an endeavour to reclaim the summit of the table. Following series of raids, the moment of the game came in the 17th minute when Shiza Kichuya utilized well the header pass from John Bocco to beat Stand United keeper. The keeper’s attempt to stop Kichuya’s power-packed shot ended in vain. It was a great move and a good start for the Msimbazi based giants on the pitch which looked difficult to administer. With one goal lead, the visitors continued to raid their opponent’s goal in pursuit of another goal, but the hosts were equally better placed and neatly defended well to avoid conceding another goal. Erasto Nyoni could have netted his first goal this season in the 27th minute when he raced through Stand defenders and found himself at a good position, but his blockbuster went a few inches off target to the advantage of home team. The hosts relied much on their flanks to penetrate through Simba territory even though much of their final balls were wasted due to lack of good coordination among their hitmen. The teams went for a break, with Simba leading with a single goal. On resumption, Simba looked a rejuvenated side and their Coach’s plan worked out just a minute after a restart. Laudit Mavugo netted the second goal in the 46th minute to assure his team a win. However, the home ground owners kept on fighting and managed to score a consolation goal in 51st minute through a spotkick. Simba defender Ali Shomary handled the ball inside the penalty box and the referee pointed on the spot. Stand United’s striker Mtasa Munashe stepped in to take the kick but his shot was easily saved by Simba custodian Aishi Manula before the rebound found him again and sent it home. Though it ended 2-1, the game was unpredictably tough as each side was better placed to carry the win. Mavugo, who enjoyed much of the encounter on the day, got a third goal in the 57th minute, but it was ruled out for an offside offence. Coach Omog was the first to adjust his starting squad as he benched Mzamiru Yassin for Saidi Ndemla in 67th minute aiming to continue their midfield dominancy which somehow looked to have run out of gas. Stand almost settled the score in the stoppage time as Manula moved out of his post to clear the ball, but Kisatya shot it off target, the arguably best opportunity of the day for the hosts.