With the stance maintained by traffic police, drivers will definitely continue to bear the brunt of law enforcers’ wrath, as, according to them, such a noble duty is supposed to be performed by instructors and teachers at driving schools. Exclusively speaking to the ‘Sunday News’ over the weekend, Traffic Police Commander, Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police (SACP), Fortunatus Musilimu, said the role of traffic police was to enforce laws, rules and regulations when on duty on the road, not to educate drivers. “At no point of time traffic police will put aside their core duty of enforcing laws, rule and regulations while on the road and instead embark on offering road safety education to drivers,” SACP Musilimu insisted. The head of the traffic police department acknowledged receiving complaints from drivers on fines imposed on them even for pardonable errors they committed. SACP Musilimu placed the burden on driving schools that keep on emerging every day, saying such institutions were duty bound to ensure they produced drivers who are competent enough to thoroughly follow road safety laws, rules and regulations. According to him, some driving schools lacked qualified instructors and teachers, a factor that contributed to production of half-baked drivers. “When it comes to enforcing laws, rules and regulations on the road, we don’t have any other option because we know that every person on the driving wheel is a competent driver, who has attended and graduated in driving courses,” he added. However, SACP Musilimu loosened his stance on the subject, saying traffic police were ready to offer road safety education to drivers but on certain conditions. “We are ready to offer road safety education to drivers, but for that to be feasible one must leave her/his vehicle at home and come to us. Strictly, we won’t educate anybody on the road,” he said. According to him, they have, at different occasions, been conducting road safety campaigns and programmes almost every year, but some have not been taking them seriously. SACP Musilimu said that in the past laws, rules and regulations governing road safety were not judiciously enforced, saying “now that we have become more serious, motorists should not misunderstand us.” Responding to claims that traffic police were only bent on collecting revenue, a core function performed by Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA), SACP Musilimu said: “The government never depends on money collected from penalties imposed to non-law abiding people.” “Very unfortunately people think money collected from penalties imposed on drivers is one of the dependable sources of government income. This is utterly wrong. The government will continue to function properly even when we record zero traffic offences in a month,” he said. SACP Musilimu insisted that traffic police will continue to tighten the noose for drivers who violate road safety laws, pointing out that an increase in number of recorded traffic offences was an indication of proper and strict enforcement of road safety laws, rules and regulations. According to the traffic police head, drivers who committed minor traffic offences were liable to 30,000/- fines, but those who committed serious traffic offences, such as causing accidents were taken to court, including revoking their driving licences upon found guilty. Data released to the ‘Sunday News’ showed that the number of offences committed by drivers from January to August, this year, stands at 1,653,145, an increase of 282,982 traffic offences, equivalent to 20.65 per cent from 1,370,163 cases recorded during the same period last year. However, SACP Musilimu refrained from divulging the amount of money collected from the penalties. Director for Future World Driving School, located in Temeke District, Dar es Salaam Region, Mr Robert Mkolla supported SACP Musilimu’s stance on the subject, saying it was illogical and against the law for traffic officers to start instructing drivers on the road. He told the ‘Sunday News’ that road safety education needed much attention and as it was taking on board many aspects, including protection of people’s lives. Mr Mkolla said the increase in traffic offences in the country was contributed by presence of fake or unqualified driving schools, urging relevant authorities to immediately react. “Some of the registered schools lack proper trainers to offer effective road safety education, as a result we end up having poorly trained drivers,” he said. According to Mr Mkolla, studies conducted in 2013 show that vehicle ownership in developed countries is 80 per cent and 20 per cent in African countries, but road accidents in developed countries stand at 44 per cent while in Africa they account for 56 per cent,” he said. “Ignorance, recklessness and carelessness are main causes of road accidents but, while recklessness and carelessness are to be tackled by law enforcers, ignorance is a typical academic issue that needs training,” he said. He was of the view that driving school owners should support the traffic police by producing competent drivers. On the other hand, he said, traffic police department should regularly inspect driving institutions to ensure only the qualified ones are operating.