Deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry for Finance and Planning, Ms Amina Khamis Shaaban made the remarks in Dar es Salaam yesterday during the 8th PSPTB graduation ceremony, where she was representing the Deputy Minister for Finance and Planning, Dr Ashatu Kijaji. “In order to regulate the ethical dynamics of procurement and supplies, professional employers in the country must make sure they hire those who are registered as per provision of part III of the Act No. 23 of 2007,” she noted Ms Shaaban further said that a person shall be recognised and entitled to practice as procurement and supplies professional or technician if they duly registered under the Act. More than 303 practitioners were accredited with basic, foundation and Certified Procurement and Supplies Professionals (CPSP). PSPTB is responsible for regulating professional standards and the conduct of professionals in the fields of procurement and supplies. Expressing concerns over numerous audit reports, she said some of them indicated losses due to failure to observe correct procedures when man aging contracts, and called for action to address the shortcoming. The Deputy PS said the Public Procurement Regulatory Authority (PPRA) report for 2016/17 indicated serious violation of procurement procedures and indicators of corruption during the management of 33 projects in 17 public institutions. “In the report, it was observed that in three institutions, more than 488.44mil/- was paid to contractors in which no work was done,” she said She warned that the government will not tolerate anyone who violated regulations and set out procedures, noting that legal actions would be taken against suspects. Earlier PSPTB Board Chairperson, Dr Hellen Bandiho, said the board was also responsible to provide the ethical code of conduct of procurement and supplies professionals and to monitor and manage the performance of registered professionals. “In order to provide better and timely service, the board is at the final stage of establishing an electronic system that will be used in the enrolment of candidate’s, professionals and various payments,” she noted Commenting on ethical code of conduct, representative of Moshi Co-operative University (MoCU), Deputy Vice Chancellor, Ms Neema Kumburu, said ethical issue was personal, therefore community members also have a role to play in molding people who abide by the morals.