Heads of churches of different Christendom denominations, Islam and other religious groups met at the Mount Meru Hotel here under the auspices of the ‘World Council of Churches,’ in collaboration with the United Nations’ Office on Genocide Prevention and Responsibility to Protect. Representatives from the Roman Catholic Church, National Council of Churches of Burundi, Council of Union of Christian Churches, Islamic Community of Burundi, Confederation of Church and Revival of Burundi and Seventh Day Adventist Church attended the consultation. They examined the current situation in the tiny East African nation as well as the role of religious leaders and their contribution to enhance peace, security and reconciliation in the country and came up with special communique. The communique, in addition to recognising the government, civic and religious groups engaged in peace-building, also called on the international community and Burundi government to re-establish diplomatic relationships. Among other recommendations, the communique proposed establishment of a workshop in Bujumbura in early 2018 to engage all religions. They implored political leaders to prevent the dissemination of divisive speech and narratives as well as violence incitement, and instead promote peace, unity and non-violent behaviours. The communique calls on the international community, including the Africa Union and United Nations to re-establish good relations with the government of Burundi. While the initial ‘Burundi Peace Accord,’ was signed in Arusha on political basis 17 years ago, the religious leaders from Bujumbura have this year managed to ink their own peace agreement to ensure that all Barundi stay united. “As religious leaders, we are joining hands to ensure that peace is sustained and Burundi will never be divided at whichever pretence, be it political, tribal or religious,” stated the Head of Protestant Evangelical Churches, Bishop Simeon Nzishura, adding that, their meeting also goes in sync with the mission to tell the world that ‘Burundi is not a horrid place as most foreign media and other rumour mongers try to speculate. On their part, Bishop Justin Nzoyisaba of the United Methodist Churches and Sheikh Sadik Abdallah Kajandi, the Mufti heading the Burundi Muslim Council, pointed out that, people in Burundi are living peacefully contrary to what ‘Sky News,’ ‘CNN” and ‘BBC,’ try to portray and that the country which has 18 provinces (regions) is as democratic as they come.