According to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) Media and Communication Officer, Alfred Lucas, seven candidates have been endorsed to contest for various posts in the body’s election. The newly elected leaders will be in office for the next four years. Lucas named candidates who have been endorsed to contest for various posts in the coming election as Clement Sanga from Young Africans and Hamad Yahya from Mtibwa Sugar, who are eyeing chairman post. Others are Shani Mligo from Azam FC, who is a sole candidate for the vicechairman post, while three posts for the representatives of Mainland Premier League clubs in the leadership committee has attracted Hamisi Madaki (Kagera Sugar) and Ramadhani Mahano from Lipuli FC. Almasi Kasongo from Ashanti United FC is a sole candidate vying for the post of representative of First Division clubs in the leadership committee, while Edgar Chibura from Abajalo FC is the only candidate, who was cleared to represent Second Division clubs in the leadership committee. Lucas said a total of 44 delegates will take part in the meeting, including 16 from the Premier clubs, 24 from the First Division clubs and four representatives from the Second Division clubs. Meanwhile, the TPLB committee has fined Simba 500,000/- for using an unauthorised gate to enter the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza to honour their Mainland Premier League encounter against Mbao FC on September 21st this year. Lucas said the move was against premier league regulations number 14(14) and the punishment was in accordance with league regulations number 14 (49). He further said that the committee has also issued a strong warning to match commissioner, Maliki Tibabimale for not taking action against Simba. The match ended in a 2-2 draw. Singida United has also been fined the same amount, following an incident in which the team’s fans invaded the pitch shortly after their match against Kagera Sugar at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma on September 23rd this year. The committee has also fined Stand United 1m/- following fans fracas during the matches against Mbeya City and Simba at the Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. The committee has also removed match official, Grace Wamara from the list of Mainland Premier League referees for failure to handle league match between Stand united and Mbeya City.