The Mainland Premier League tail-enders, are eager to crawl up the ladder by nothing but a win against defending champions will appease Bukoba fans. The Kaitaba Stadium was recently rehabilitated with artificial turf. “We will enter the recently rehabilitated Kaitaba Stadium with one intention…to grab maximum three points,” he boasted. In their encounter last Octo ber, Kagera Sugar were humiliated 6-2 by Yanga as a result, they suspended two key players allegedly for sabotaging the club including custodian Hussein Sharrif “Casillas” and striker Eric Kyaruzi. Yanga will be extra-careful during the encounter bearing in mind that they face stiff competition when they play at the Kaibata Stadium. Yanga lost 0-1 to Kagera Sugar on October 31, 2014 when the two sides met in a Premier League match here courtesy of a 53rd minute strike by Paul Ngwai, who had replaced Adam Kingwande. Kagera Sugar Team Manager, Mohamed Hussein, also bragged that the club which performed impressively and finished on third position last season was determined to win the match. “We have signed good players. We are still confident of winning the league title this season,” he said. Yanga are occupying sixth position with nine points from five matches, while Kagera Sugar are trailing on 16th position with just two points in their kit from five matches. They are yet to win a match. Already Bukoba town is buzzing, with football fans looking forward to witness the game. A number of football lovers in town were spotted busy looking for Yanga and Kagera jerseys, ready to don them during the encounter. Yanga contingent will arrive in Bukoba Municipality any time today ready for the clash. Meanwhile, Mbao FC Head Coach, Etienne Ndairagije has said his team is well prepared for their today tie against Mbeya City at the CCM Kirumba Stadium, reports Alexander Sanga from Mwanza. Ndairagije said his team is in good condition and all the players are well and fit for the match. The former Vital O, tactician said key players -- Yusuf Ndikumana and Amos Mgeta, who were nursing injuries have now recovered and they will play today. Ndikumana and Mgeta missed the Tanzania Prisons match, which ended in a 1-1 draw. Ndikumana said every match to them is like a final and he promised his team will work hard to win in each and every match ahead of them. Mbao are placed ninth on the log after collecting five points from five matches. They have netted six goals and conceded seven and they have won one match against Kagera Sugar. Mbao have drawn against Tanzania Prisons and Simba SC, while they lost two games against Singida United and Mtibwa Sugar.