After a flying start in the opening day on Thursday, it was another medal festival for the host Tanzania as medals kept rolling in at the athletes’ wishes. It was Sonia Tumiotto who led the onslaught in an accompany with Collins Saliboko, Kayla Gouws, Chichi Zengeni and Judah Miller. Also won medals yesterday were Elia Imhoff, Natie Sanford, Delvin Barick and Emma Imhoff. The bright performance of the athletes as an official of Tanzania Swimming Association(TSA), Ramad hani Namkoveka noted, is a clear evidence that swimming is heading for a bright future. Namkoveka thanked sponsors Vodacom Tanzania, Swissair, JCDecaux, Coca Cola, Label Promotions, Tanzania Sign Writers, Giraffe Ocean View, Print Galore and Slipway Hotel for the supports that added a dimension to the beauty of the competition. Kenyan team which was featuring for the first time in history of the event, gained momentum and won gold medal in the 400m freestyle for the girls who aged bellow 14 years old, through Victoria Okumu. The team also won silver medal in the category which saw Tanzania swimmer, Kayla Gouws winning bronze medal. It was Ugandan, Darren Ssamula who won a gold medal in boys U-14 years in freestyle after clocking 4.50.17 and followed by Michael Lillie Michael and Samora Lumonya of Uganda respectively. Then came, Sonia Tumiotto who revived the Tanzanian hopes by defending well the title after winning gold medal in girls above 15 years old in freestyle beating two Kenyans, Nasimiyu Khatundi and Virginia Okumu who won silver and bronze respectively. Ridhwani Abubakar of Kenya won gold medal for the swimmers aged above 15 years in boys beating Collins Saliboko who won silver and Kabir Bedi of Kenya who won a bronze medal. Ugandan Kirabo Namutebi won the gold medal for girls aged bellow 12 years old, with Tanzanians, Kayla Gouws and Chichi Zengeni winning silver and bronze medals. Judal Miller of Tanzania won gold medal in boys U-12 after clocking 33.97 to beat her fellow Tanzanian, Elia Imhoff who won silver and Kenyan, Michael Michuki who won bronze. Zambian Mia Phiri also won gold medal for the girls aged between 13 and 14 while Tanzanian, Natalie Sanford and Kenyan, Lucia Rutchti won silver and bronze medals respectively. Emma Ihmhoff and Collins Saliboko made the country proud of doing well in the butterfly 50 metres after winning gold and silver while Sonia wining another gold medal in 200m backstroke making the country to be at the top of the standing.