The newly signed coaching partnership will be tested almost 48 hours after the Burundian arrived in Dar es Salaam to train Simba as an Assistant Coach . Apart from the much focused Dar es Salaam venue, there will be other crucial matches in different venues as all top placed teams will be playing today. Simba who forced a 1-1 draw with a superb equalising goal from their Ugandan striker, Emmanuel Okwi host newly promoted Njombe in Dar es Salaam and will be targeting to post victory so as to consolidate their stay at the driver’s seat. The Msimbazi Street-based club on Thursday made a slight change in its technical bench by recruiting the Burundian national following the resignation of their Ugandan Assistant coach Jackson Mayanja. Masoud who earlier coached Rayon Sports of Rwanda, is eager to see his new team regain their winning formula after being held to a 1-1 draw by Mtibwa Sugar last weekend. However, Simba should handle the game with care as Njombe Mji, despite being debutants, they are not an easy prey to kill as their fellow giants Young Africans had a tough time when they face them in Njombe in a game that saw the defending champions posting a slim 1-0 victory. So Simba should not take today’s match as a walkover as their opponents who kicked their first topflight league season in a wrong foot seem to have been rejuvenated and are targeting a high ride in the ongoing league which has now turned highly competitive. Mtibwa Sugar and Azam FC who are also tied at the top seat are close competitors as they have tied with leaders Simba on 12-points table, only superior goal average helps Simba to stay at the helm. Mtibwa Sugar welcome Tanzania Prisons at the Manungu complex in Morogoro as Azam FC will be away at the CCM- Kirumba to face die-hards Mbao FC. Azam go to CCM –Kirumba Stadium after being held to a 1-1 draw by Mwadui in their previous game, victory to both Mtibwa and Azam can help decide the race for the driver’s seat as well. But it is not an easy task for both of them as their opponents are tough and unpredictable, thus, making the both games thrilling and highly challenging for the both sides. Other venues to be involved in today’s fixture are Samora Machel Stadium where Lipuli FC host Majimaji FC with the hosts seeking to utilise their home ground advantage to claim maximum points. Whereas at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya, Mbeya City will host Ruvu Shooting as at Nangwanda Stadium in Mtwara, Ndanda FC will host Singida United who will targeting for a win to maintain their top four status. The league continues tomorrow when the title defenders, Young Africans who had great time in Kagera following their 2-1 victory over hosts Kagera Sugar in their last Saturday game, will be in Shinyanga at the Kambarage Stadium to face their host Stand United .