It will be the battle of titanic as both the league leaders Simba and the runners-up Mtibwa Sugar are unbeaten at the top with 11 points a piece after playing five games. Simba are slight ahead with superior goal difference. This simply means any side which will stand tall from the encounter will have an opportunity to top the 16-team league with points and not by goals as it is currently the case. The Msimbazi based giants will approach the game in positive mood after registering a remarkable 2-1 away victory over Stand United last Sunday while the Sugarcane growers were held to a scoreless draw by Young Africans at Uhuru Stadium in the city a week before. On the same day, there will be another tough game at Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya where Tanzania Prisons who are placed fifth on the log table will entertain 15th- placed Stand United from Shinyanga. On Friday, October 20th only one match will be played when Mwadui FC will host Kagera Sugar at Mwadui Complex. The reigning champions Yanga who presently occupy the sixth position, will be playing their third away game on Sunday, October 22nd against Stand United. As the league stand, only five teams; Simba, Mtibwa Sugar, Azam FC, Young Africans and Tanzania Prisons are yet to test defeats and they all enjoy a five-match unbeaten run. Simba who reclaimed the driver’s seat after beating Stand United have finished scoreless in only one match; a barren draw with Azam in Dar es Salam in the second round. Again the fifth round fixture saw the Lake Zone leading in goal galore as 9 goals, over a half of all goals were netted in just three matches staged in Mwanza, Shinyanga and Mwadui. Three goals were netted in Simba’s 2-1 win over Stand United while the match between Mwadui and Mbeya City stamped a four goal thriller though the match ended in 2-2 draw. Two more goals were carved in Mbao’s 1-1 draw with visitors Tanzania Prisons at CCM Kirumba Stadium. Only 2 goals were scored in the central zone where hosts Singi da United drew 1-1 with Azam. Three goals were fired home in two venues of Southern Tanzania, where as in Mtwara Ndanda defeated Lipuli 2-1 while in Songea Majimaji were held to a barren draw with visiting Kagera Sugar at Majimaji Stadium over the weekend. Only two goals were netted in the Coastal region following Ruvu Shooting’s 1-1 draw with Njombe Mji. The top from the fifth round fixture was an overwhelming big number of draws where as six draws were stamped while the victories were recorded in only two venues; Shinyanga CCM Kambarage Stadium and Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara.