The two-day workshop to be held at the previous Zanzibar House of Representatives building at Kikwajuni area in Urban West will also deliberate on the role of young people in promoting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their achievement. The symposium, on Monday and Tuesday is part of activities designated to mark the National Youth Week, which runs concurrently with the culmination of the Uhuru Torch race ceremony. Urban West Regional Commissioner, Mr Ayoub Mahmoud said here yesterday that the National Youth Week will commence tomorrow with a demonstration of youths at Amaan Stadium, to be graced by the Second Vice President, Ambassador Seif Ali Idd. “As we know, the motto for this year’s Uhuru Torch race is ‘participate in developing industrial economy for the development of our country’, therefore, through this workshop, youths will come together to dialogue on how important industrialization is in economic development and in the creation of job opportunities,” said Mr Mahmoud.   “The workshop is also going to explore ways and means of promoting youth participation in achieving sustainable development goals, but also cultivate patriotism among the younger generation, and make them understand and embrace national responsibility,” he added. The Urban West RC said the Minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama will officiate the opening of the youth workshop. The Uhuru Torch is expected to arrive in Unguja Island today after spending four days in the sister Island of Pemba. According to Mr Mahmoud, the torch will launch a number of completed projects, including eight projects in Urban West region, as well as visit and inspect other ongoing projects across the three regions of Unguja. He said the Uhuru Torch will help draw attention to ongoing wars against corruption, diseases (notably malaria and HIV/Aids) and illicit drugs. Mr Mahmoud hit out at Uhuru Torch race critics, saying those claiming that the freedom torch had lost its meaning were doing so out of ignorance. “Uhuru Torch is one of the national symbols of Tanzania, and still very relevant to its people; people across the world have their national symbols. For us, the Uhuru Torch symbolizes unity and solidarity, what we preach during the Uhuru Torch race is development, unity, solidarity and patriotism regardless of political differences, race, religion and tribes,” he stressed. In 1964, the first President, the late Julius Nyerere introduced the annual race in which a group of selected youths carry the torch around the country ˜to bring hope where there is despair, love where there is enmity and respect where there is hatred. The Freedom Torch was first lit on top of Mount Kilimanjaro on December 9, 1961 by Alaxander Nyirenda to mark the country’s independence from colonial rule