While this is happening in Tanzania, some years ago in the subcontinent people in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh where there are many people who don’t eat beef as they leave them to roam and die at their own in the wild. Due to manmade factors, the effects of decline of vultures in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh is known to scientists, environmentalists and commoners due to its contribution to the rise of cholera and other diseases. Scientist say vultures play very ecological task of cleaning the savannah where hundreds of animals die due to natural causes such as illness and aging but a group of 100 to 600 of these birds is capable of devouring a carcass of an African buffalo weighing 1,000 kilograms and finish it after few minutes. Due to their ability, vultures assemble and scramble to get access to portions from a dead body of an elephant while leaving behind an empty skeleton which will be grinded to dust by powerful bacteria which also enrich the soil fertility. This ability makes them more efficient in the natural process of cleaning the savannah than hyenas and jackals which depend on their nostrils to collect smell of a dead animal from the air and spend many hours to locate it in the middle of jungle. This happens when one vulture locates a weak mammal standing idle in the middle of the savannah waiting for its natural death before carnivorous such as lion, leopard, cheetah, hyena and African hunting dogs find it. Scientists say in the wild many eland, bushbuck, buffalo, waterbuck and other antelopes die because of age and illness than falling into accident of being killed by predators. From the sky this vulture will send signals to fellow birds which will assemble and hover in the sky and wait for the right time when an elephant falls down for its death. The spectacular annual migration of the greater Serengeti eco-system involves animal and birds of different species more than one million wildebeests which form the largest group on the race. The second largest contingent of the migration is made up of zebra and gazelles but there others who are not included but follow it for their own interest these are lions, cheetahs, hyenas, jackals, marabou stocks but it is the vultures which clean the savannah receive dead bodies from one point to another. Due to some of the morphological hindrance it’s very difficult for an older Lion incapable of hunting to see a carcass of an Antelope laying in the middle of a vast Savannah full of bushes, trees and ground with wrinkles made up by hills and valleys. This is like searching a needle on the floor of a darkroom although every day there is at least a single dead body of a mammal within an area of 100 square miles, from their side getting carcass in a national park full of scavengers is very competitive task and winners are those who are gifted with sharp eye sighting and are quick in their actions. This is an easy task to a vulture which is equipped with Telephoto Vision system enable them to pin point clearly a dead body from the sky even at thousand miles. Scientists say the system works in their eyes like a camera whereby an object is photographed and an image is sent to the brain for scrutiny and action. This ability give vultures an upper hand against ground dwelling scavenger such as hyena, jackal and old lions which depend mainly on their noose to sniff and wait for the wind to show them a location where a dead body of a zebra is lying. Poachers hate this bird because from one thousand miles above a killing sight by using their powerful eyes empowered by Telephoto vision mechanism vultures are able to pin point a location where a rhino has been illegally killed. The killing site may be located in the middle of open savannah grassland or in a bush where security people with special equipments are not able to locate an elephant trapped and die from thirsty and hunger, it can also be in the middle of a forest where human eyes are completely unable to match the ability. Vultures need to be protected because in Tanzania some years ago more than eight elephant were found dead just out side Manyara national park with all their tusks removed from the carcasses without mutilating the heads indicating that they were poisoned with a combination of chemical. It’s not yet known how many vultures were affected by this tedious action but on the other side this is an indicator that with more than 28 game reserves and 17 national parks scattered all over the country Tanzanians will be at great danger of suffering from cholera and other water borne disease if this chemical warfare is able to wipe vultures from the sky of Ruaha, Ngorongoro, Selous and other game parks. The Swahili names for these birds is Tumbusi and with their large wings are able to go down at a speed of 18 miles per hour sending powerful waves with signals to others who may be up in the sky 20 miles away and take 20 to 30 minutes to congregate on the killing site. The International Union for the Conservation of Nature’s or IUCN says that the problem between poachers and vultures started from the Far East in early 1970s and had painful effects in countries such as India where there more than 60 millions of vultures but up to the end of 1990 the country lost 99.9 percent of these birds. In South Africa poacher are using special poison which they put in vegetables and loaves of bread to kill animals such as buffaloes and zebras which their poisonous carcass are then eaten by vultures which also take portions to feed chicks resulting into a massive death of Cape Vultures. Scientists say the absence of vultures in any game park will create a health problem to villages and townships such as Dukambovu, near Tarangire, Mtowambu which is located near Lake Manyara national park and all villages around Ruaha national park where the recent killing of these birds was reported. This is because the intestine system of these birds are equipped with a powerful mechanism which use corrosive toxins capable of grinding and finishing up all harmful bacteria which caused the death of a Zebra. It is right to say vultures are an important natural blockage of dangerous bacteria which may be easily carried to our dining tables by flies or to our kitchens by mouse and rats from the forests. It is possible some people in Tanzania don’t like or even sympathies with them in this plight because most of us regard these birds as non attractive but their presence make popular animals sanctuaries such as Serengeti, Manyara, Ngorongoro, Saadani Mikumi and others to be clean and attract more tourists who bring in foreign money into the country. In Tanzania the Griffon Vulture which migrate into Serengeti, Saadani, Rubondo, Katavi, Mkomazi from Europe and Asia join force with the resident Nubians vultures to make our national parks and game reserves to be clean and attractive. 