“I would like to categorically declare that Bishop Niwemugizi’s statement constitutes neither part or not at all position of the Catholic Church in the country” Cardinal Pengo told our reporter when clarifying on Bishop Niwemugizi’s statement which has stirred discussion among Tanzanians and within church members. He explained that according to Bishop Niwemugizi’s position and his esteemed status he held in the society, his statement can be easily regarded as the church’s position or at least that of the Dioceses he is leading, but Cardinal Pengo emphasized that principally the statement is void of anything to consider it as the position of the church. Cardinal Pengo asserted that unlike others who are always keeping on pressing for a new constitution, he is par ticularly concerned with the improvement of social services like health, education and water to improve the living standard of all Tanzanians. “If you tell me that Tanzania’s priority is a new constitution, one has to convince me of that since I can’t see the logic seeing a child dying of hunger or lack of medicine simply because of putting priority on a new constitution,” he explained. He further said a new constitution is secondary but if politicians think otherwise, they should not let children die just because people are busy discussing the new constitution, and added that “They (politicians) should not let our children miss school because the whole budget was consumed in constitutional debates.” Commenting on Bishop Niwemugizi’s statement, Papal Envoy to Tanzania, Most Reverend Bishop Marek Solc zynski said that much as Bishop Niwemugizi has the right to freedom of expression, the problem comes when people fail to differentiate whether it is his personal opinion or that of the church. “It is his personal opinion, not that of the church” the Vatican Ambassador emphasized. The Advocate of the High Court, Mr James Nandone also commented on the matter, saying that if asked today he would rather go for transformation of the economy than pressing for a new constitution. “If you ask me today to either choose the constitution or reviving our economy, I would choose the latter, because uplifting the lives of Tanzanians should be a priority for now.” He explained. Bishop Niwemugizi was recently quoted by various media outlets saying a new constitution is currently Tanzania’s priority, and went further to say that as a religious leader he has denounced the recommended constitution because according to him, it does not satisfy peoples’ needs, saying that it was against national ethics as well as his faith. As a religious leader, his statement created discomfort and uncertainty among the population, including Catholic Church followers as they believed the statement was church’s position.