The new design will enable the police force in the country to effectively conduct operations and patrols against crimes. RSA Limited, the pioneers of safari vehicle bodies in the tourist sector, has successfully repaired 15 dilapidated motor vehicles of the Tanzania police force, saving about 2bn/-, which the government could have spent to procure new brand cars. The new design diversifies the company’s scope of business from the tourism sector. RSA Limited Managing Director Manmohan Singh handed over the newly designed vehicles to Dar es Salaam Regional Commissioner (RC) Paul Makonda at a ceremony here yesterday. Kilimanjaro RC Anna Mghwira and several other senior police officers, including Dar es Salaam Special Police Zone Commander Senior Assistant Commissioner of Police Lazaro Mambosasa attended the handover ceremony. Mr Makonda said the 14 vehicles are among the 26 cars, which were sent to the Moshi company for mechanical maintenance, reconditioning and modification to suit the operations and patrols of the police force. He said not a single cent has been paid for the works, appreciating the company for undertaking the mechanical works charge free. The RC thanked the firm for its contribution to the nation, expressing hopes that the vehicles would help the police in performing their duties, effectively. He said he was tempted to embrace the design,following a wave of killings of police officers in some robbery incidences and other crimes, notably at the robbery of CRDB bank at Mbagala and Coast Region, where several police officers were attacked and killed. “This was due to the nature and design of the vehicles they were using. These vehicles have been designed to combat crimes at any angle. We’re taking these vehicles today and we undertake to bring others for similar purposes,” the RC said. On her part, Kilimanjaro RC called on the Tanzania Bureau of Standards (TBS) to protect the company’s patent rights that it should not be infringed by others. She thanked her counterpart for coming with the idea. Kilimanjaro RC promised to take a similar course in the near future. Commander Mambosasa thanked Mr Makonda for his continued support to the force, promising that the vehicles would assist them in a number of issues related to defence and security in Dar es Salaam. Giving more clarification on the matter, Mr Singh said that they had received the vehicles from the RC, which were indeed defective and in dilapidated state and were declared not roadworthy. The vehicles underwent several maintenances from the engine, gearbox, suspension and new body design. “We used our expertise to recondition them with the new design to enable the police perform their operations and patrols, effectively. They now look like new, but when they were brought to our company, the vehicles were in a dilapidated state,” he said, thanking Mr Makonda for his efforts to ensure the police force is well equipped, but called on other government institutions to adopt a similar system to cut down costs of buying new vehicles. “The government would have spent 160m/- to buy one new vehicle of this design. All the 14 vehicles would have cost 2.24bn/- but the repairs would have cost 30m/- per vehicle, bringing the total to 420m/-,” RSA Limited boss said. He said out of 26 vehicles taken to the company, only 15 are repairable but the remaining 11 are beyond repair. The reconditioned motor vehicles, he said, could accommodate nine policemen and easily get in and out without any difficulty.