The Freedom Torch’s extinguishing event will coincide with 18th anniversary of the death of the founding Father of the Nation, Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and thousands of Tanzanians, including national leaders, politicians and ordinary citizens as well as invited guests, are expected to witness the historic fete. Dr Magufuli arrived in Zanzibar on Thursday ready to preside over the Uhuru Torch race’s climax ceremony. He visited his host, Dr Ali Mohamed Shein at Zanzibar State House, where the two leaders held private talks. In line with commemoration of the 18th anniversary of the passing away of the country’s beloved son and hero, Nyerere, President Magufuli, accompanied by the First Lady, Janeth, will this morning attend a special prayer service for the late Mwalimu Nyerere at Anglican Cathedral, located in Stone Town. The Anglican Cathedral, also known as the Christ Church Cathedral, is a remnant of early Christian architecture in East Africa. Made mostly from coral stone, the cathedral has a fascinating design that is a blend of Gothic and Islamic details. After the prayer service at the historic 19th-century Cathedral, President Magufuli will proceed to Amaan Stadium to officiate the climax of the Uhuru Torch race, when the whole nation will be commemorating the life and work of the late Mwalimu Nyerere. And leading the nation at this special occasion, which occurs on the 14th of October, every year, will be the man whose forthrightness has endeared him with many Tanzanians, most especially the solid majority, with leadership style rightly likened to Mwalimu Nyerere’s first phase regime. The fifth-phase President, JPM, in almost similar fashion to the late Mwalimu Nyerere, has demonstrated a no-nonsense attitude in dealing with significant and burning issues, notably corruption and embezzlement of public funds. President Magufuli’s regime, in fact, has been championing Mwalimu Nyerere’s mission and vision; demonstrating zero tolerance against new and old enemies that have been besetting the nation. These include corruption, bribe, drug abuse and trafficking, environmental degradation, poverty, ignorance and diseases. To achieve his government’s goals, President Magufuli, now in his second year since being sworn-in as Tanzania’s fifth President, has never shied away from reproaching corrupt and lazy public officials, often sending out those who have either failed to live up to his expectation or failed to embrace his development agenda. While demonstrating ruthlessness in his war against all bad elements within and outside the government, President Magufuli has always showed strong desire to transform the country’s economy and ensure there is equal sharing of the national cake. The 2017 Uhuru Torch race, launched on April 2 in Katavi Region by Zanzibar President Ali Mohamed Shein, toured different parts of the country, where various development projects were inspected and launched, while shading light on the government’s development endeavours, notably the 2025 development agenda, which centres on industrial economy. During the 195-days marathon, the Freedom Torch sought to encourage locals to play their part in the building of industries for the envisaged national development, through its motto; ‘Participate in the promotion of industrial economy for national development.” The Uhuru Torch also sought to draw attention to ongoing crusades against corruption, diseases (notably malaria and HIV/Aids) and narcotic drugs, which is growing problem among young population. Urban West Regional Commissioner (RC), Mr Ayoub Mahmoud said yesterday that key preparations for the national Uhuru Torch race’s climax ceremony are complete and urged Tanzanians to show up early in the morning to avoid inconveniencies. The extinguishing exercise will run concurrently with the climax of the National Youth week. For the past week, youth have been participating in various activities, including exhibitions and workshops in commemoration of the National Youth Week. Uhuru Torch is one of the prestigious national symbols, which signify freedom and light. The Torch was first lit on top of Mount Kilimanjaro on December 9, 1961 by Alaxander Nyirenda to mark the country’s Independence from colonial rule. In 1964, the late Nyerere introduced the annual race in which a group of selected youth carry the torch around the country to bring hope where there is despair, love where there is enmity and respect where there is hatred.