He stated that the government was aware that religion was among crucial sources of wisdom through provision of education for moral values that help worshippers refrain from committing evil acts. The PM said this while opening the 48th annual general meeting of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community at Msongola Ward in Ilala District, Dar es Salaam, yesterday. “If our religions are used well, we can implement President John Magufuli’s directive which insists on embracing ‘hard work’ because each one would avoid laxity and be accountable. According to a statement issued by the Prime Minister’s Office, Mr Majaliwa expressed his trust in religious institutions that they sustain the battle against evils in communities, through imparting knowledge and skills to positively change their attitudes. “Let me assure you that the government supports efforts by religious institutions in fighting any kind of evil, for instance, the use of illicit drugs, theft and corruption,’he told the religious leaders. He went on saying that the issue of combating evil deeds should be the duty of every Tanzanian, adding that individuals should ensure that they control indicators for destruction of peace, by reporting them to the responsible organs. He attributed the peace, which the country enjoys, to a number of things including citizens having trust in their government and conducting their activities without interference.  The government’s efforts to fight corruption and improving discipline among civil servants have also played a major role in maintaining peace in the country. “The government has laid down concrete strategies to tackle corruption, reviewing contracts and improving ethics among civil servants in order to build trust among citizens and thus avoid conflicts and huge income gaps,” he said. Earlier, the leader and missionary in-charge of Ahmadiyya Muslim Jamaat-Tanzania, Sheikh Tahir Mahmood Chaudhry, said the community’s yearly meeting is aimed at reminding the faithful over principles of Islam and strengthening brotherhood. Sheikh Chaudhry noted that this year’s conference was attended by over 4,000 participants from all regions in Mainland and Zanzibar. It was also attended by people from UK, Canada, Rwanda, Uganda, Germany, Kenya, Burundi, Malawi and DR Congo.