“Occasional heavy rains are expected over these areas especially towards January, next year. The rainfall season is likely to start in November and December, this year,” TMA Director General Dr Agnes Kijazi told a news conference. Unimodal areas receive one rainfall season per annum and they include west ern, central, southwestern highlands in addition to southern regions and southern coast, the TMA boss explained during the media briefing on the ‘Msimu’ rainfall season. “Incidences of short periods of heavy rainfall which may lead to floods associated with various impacts to the society are expected over few areas; sufficient soil moisture to support agriculture is predicted in many areas,” Dr Kijazi explained. She warned on likelihood of outbreak of water borne diseases especially in areas with poor sewerage system in urban areas and those with shortage of safe and clean water. “Likewise, people and companies engaged in artisanal mining are advised to take safety precaution since excessive water in the soil may trigger landslides and cave-ins of the mining pits. On the other hand, there will be significant water levels in dam to support hydro power generation,” she noted. Dr Kijazi explained as well that soil moisture levels are likely to be experienced and this is expected to support crop production and pasture for livestock and wildlife. “Farmers and livestock keepers are advised to harvest rain waters for immediate and future use, fish farmers are urged to practice modern aquaculture and sustainable fishing,” the TMA in-charge explained. Dr Kijazi advised local government authorities and the community at large on cleaning and clearing drainage systems to avoid possible water accumulation due to surface runoff and floods which may cause damages to houses, infrastructure and loss of lives. She also urged disaster management authorities, humanitarian responders and other stakeholders to take necessary mitigation measures to avoid losses and destruction from the expected heavy rains. Earlier, the TMA director of forecasting services, Mr Samuel Mbuya, had observed that slightly warm surface temperatures are being observed over the Western Indian Ocean and are likely to persist from November 2017 to April, next year. Mr Mbuya stated further that the westerly wind pattern is expected to enhance moisture influx from the Congo basin to western and southwestern parts of the country.