Thus, PCCB Director General Mr Valentino Mlowola directed Mr Nassari to stop immediately uttering words meant to pressurize the Bureau to take actions over his information in a hurry. “I am warning Mr Nassari to let us (PCCB) exercise our duties and not pressurizing us to do as he wants. The institution runs its duties not through pressure, but acts in accordance with its law,” he pointed out. Mr Mlowola said that Mr Nassari risks prosecution if he continues with his actions, and defies the precautions he was given when he presented the information to them. He made remarks while address ing a press conference in Dar es Salaam yesterday saying Mr Nassari, Mr Godbless Lema (Arusha Urban MP) and Rev Peter Msigwa (Iringa Urban) were warned not to disclose to the public the information they presented to the institution, and instead gave them time to work on it. “Instead Mr Nassari as an informer has been defying our directive, and every time he presents the information, he discloses to the public all proceedings being undertaken by PCCB,” he added. Mr Mlowola said that Mr Nassari being an informer to PCCB, owes them the right to defence over the information he presented. He said that according to the AntiCorruption Act Section 37, an informer commits an offence by exposing oneself or information presented to the institution, despite having the right of defence from them. He warned them against tampering with the information and politicizing it in accordance to the law of the land. The three MPs, Godbless Lema -- Arusha Urban, Joshua Nassari -- Arumeru East and Rev Peter Msigwa -- Iringa Urban for three different days this month submitted to PCCB video clips allegedly implicating 10 former civic leaders and several public servants in bribery. According to Mr Mlowola, the first clip Nassari and the two presented a video clip on October 2, 4 and 16 this year, but have been defying the Anti-corruption Act by exposing themselves, the information and the proceedings by the authority to the media seeking public audience over their complaints. Mr Mlowola said on the first day the three presented the video clips despite PCCB warning them not to reveal their contents to the public, he asked for time to work on them. However, Mr Nassari and his colleagues for the three days they presented the clips, immediately called upon the media to expose the contents and other proceedings pressuring the authority to take actions according to their will.