They are Shaha Hanzuruni, who is Acting Chief Executive Officer and Onesphor Luhungu, the Head of Finance and Accounts. The transaction linked to the charges against them related to procurement of lease agreement for TIA Mwanza Campus. Before Principal Resident Magistrate Thomas Simba, the accused denied the charges. They were granted bail on stringent conditions, including securing two reliable sureties each, who were required to sign a bond of 250m/-. One of the sureties for every accused, according to the Magistrate, must deposit in court 250m/- in cash or produce a title deed of immovable property certified at the same amount. The Magistrate ordered that the property whose title deed is to be surrendered must be positioned in Dar es Salaam. Furthermore, the Magistrate directed each accused to surren der in court his travel documents and restrained to leave the city before obtaining written permit of the court. None of the accused managed to foot the set bail conditions. They were, thus, ordered to remain in remand prison until October 24, when the case comes up for preliminary hearing. Investigations into the matter, according to a Prosecutor with the Prevention and Combatting of Corruption Bureau (PCCB) Leonard Swai, have been completed. Prosecuting, Mr Swai told the court that the accused committed the offences on diverse dates between January 1, 2012 and December30, 2014 at the TIA Offic es in Temeke District in the city. Being employees of TIA, the prosecution charged, Hanzuruni and Luhungu intentionally abused their positions by not following procurement procedures in securing lease agreement for TIA Mwanza Campus, thereby causing one Vedastus Lukago to obtain an undue advantage of 1,097,681,107/-. Within the same period at the TIA offices, by willful acts, the accused caused their employer to suffer a pecuniary loss of the said amount, the property of TIA for allegedly failing to follow procurement procedures in securing the lease agreement for the institution’s Mwanza Campus.