In Mwanza, Mbeya City’s Assistant Coach, Mohamed Kijuso has lauded his team’s fighting spirit after overcoming two goal scare to draw with hosts Mbao 2-2 at CCM Kirumba Stadium. Kijuso said his team still targets to excel in the league and was satisfied with the hard-earned results. Kijuso said his team played well, but his defenders committed many blunders that earned Mbao a 2-0 lead before the half time. “The match was good, Mbao FC played well and they managed to score early goals, but we fought hard and managed to equalise, “Kijuso said. The former Simba SC player called upon the Mbeya football fraternity to unite and support their team when they are playing. Mbao FC goals were netted by Yusuph Ndikumana through foul kick in the 4th minute and Ndaki Robert shot in the 41st minute while Mbeya city equalised their goals through Eliud Ambokile in the 55 minutes and Omary Ramadhan in the 63 minutes. Mbao FC who are sponsored by Sportsmaster and RB Battery are placed seventh in the Vodacom premier league standing. They have gathered Eight points and they have won two matches. Mbeya city have netted seven goals and conceded seven goals. Mbao FC are placed ninth with seven points and they have netted 8 goals. They have won one match and drawn three. On his side Mbao FC head coach Etienne Ndairagije said his team did many mistakes which led to concede the two goals. The former Yanga and Big Bullet said his team didn’t play as he expected. From Bukoba Meddy Muliza reports that Kagera Sugar Head Coach, Mecky Maxime, has conceded that their encounter against visiting Young Africans from Dar es Salaam was tough, but urged Kagera fans to continue supporting the team. Hundreds of fans from Bukoba, who thronged the Kaitaba Stadium on Saturday witnessed an equally contested match. Zambia striker Obry Chirwa opened the score for Yanga in the 40th minute after squeezing in-between Kagera defenders–Maita Gereza and Juma Nyoso to score with a rasping shot past custodian Juma Kaseja. Yanga celebrated the second goal through industrious Ibrahim Ajib in the 50th minute. He utilised a high pass from Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) player Pappy Tshishimbi. Striker Jaffar Kibaya reduced the margin for Kagera Sugar scoring with a header in the 62nd minute. Kagera boys should blame themselves for not winning the match. They had a big support from fans and also controlled most of the second half but inept shooting cost them. Young Africans Assistant Coach, Shedrack Nsajigwa, on the other hand, praised his boys for putting up a gallant spirit. ”The most important thing was to collect three maximum points and that is what my boys did. We are thankful to God for winning the match,” he said. He added that the win was morale booster as they are heading to Shinyanga for another league match against Stand United next week. Yanga have now moved a step ahead after collecting twelve points from six matches, while Kagera Sugar are trailing on 16th position with just two points in their kit from six matches.