Speaking to journalists shortly after officiating over a function to mark the day, TBS Director General, Prof. Egid Mubofu said the day was taken seriously by his institution through creating awareness among students on matters related to adherence to standards. “We mark the world standards day by organising various activities, including essay writing competition among secondary students as a way of creating awareness on the importance of standards,” Prof. Mubofu explained. He said the major aim of marking the day was to educate people on the importance of standards in improving their lives through the quality of their assets, health and safety among others. According to the TBS boss, every year the International Organization for Standardisation (ISO) has a theme on the marking of the day in question, and this year’s theme was “standards make cities smarter”, which emphasises the importance of standards in improving the livelihood of urban dwellers. “The bureau has been organising essay competition in secondary schools using the theme of the specific year with the aim of measuring the understanding of students on issues related to standards,” Prof. Mubofu said. He added that the competition helps TBS measure the extent at which citizens understand the importance of standards and what should be done in capacity building, especially for students to understand the importance of standards in their lives. Prof Mubofu said the awards and certificates given to the winners of the competition are taken as a motivation to them and to other students to participate in future competitions yet enhancing their capacity and knowledge on various matters. “TBS is determined to improve people’s lives and ensure that standards are adhered, especially in the areas of production, construction and health. The government’s objective of industrial economy will be possible with strictness in adherence of standards,” he stressed. Earlier, the TBS Director of Standards, Ms Edna Ndumbaro said that the objective of TBS through essay competition was to create awareness on standard matters to current and future generations. “Ten students from Kibaha, Feza, Elboru and Loyola secondary schools won prizes and certificates..,” Ms. Ndumbaro asserted. The best winner was from Kibaha Secondary School, Barnabas Michael, who commended TBS for coming up with the idea and that the essay competition promotes and increases understanding of matters related to standards. “I take this opportunity to encourage my colleagues (students) to take part in such competitions,” he said, thanking TBS for promoting issues related to standards from the grassroots. World Standards Day is celebrated internationally each year. The day honours the efforts of thousands of experts who develop voluntary standards within standards development organizations.