In a special message delivered at State House in Dar es Salaam, yesterday, by Oman Minister of Oil and Gas, Dr Mohammed Hamad Al Rumhy, the Sultan pledged to Dr Magufuli that Muscat will as well support Dar es Salaam in developing its oil and gas industry and the Bagamoyo Special Economic Zone. Dr Al Rumhy was accompanied by Oman’s Minister for Investment, Salem Ben Nasser Al Ismaily and that country’s Deputy Minister for Tourism Maitha Saif Majid. The delegation from Oman is made up of 300 officials who are in the country to cement economic and bi-lateral ties between Oman and Tanzania. Tanzania is expected to receive experience on development of natural gas and Oman has pledged to set up a fertiliser factory at the Bagamoyo SEZ in addition to food processing industries. “Your excellency President Magufuli, we are keen to cooperate with your government to develop Bagamoyo Special Economic Zone into a bustling investment area. We plan to establish a factory to produce fertiliser. “Plans are also afoot to set up food processing plants; we will be buying food crops from farmers, process them for value addition before exporting the produce. We are very committed and tomorrow we are going to visit the site so that the construction work gets underway,” the Omani leader stated. Dr Magufuli thanked the Sultan for sending the delegation and asked Dr Al Rumhy to inform the leader that the government of Tanzania was committed to further historical relations with Oman. President Magufuli guaranteed the support of the Tanzanian government in undertaking investments, stating that he would be pleased to have the projects undertaken in the shortest time possible. “Please inform the Sultan that I have been pleased by your visit and inform him he is much welcome to Tanzania. We will be happy to receive more investments from your country,” Dr Magufuli told the Omani minister. Dr Magufuli as well reached out to Oman to cement relations in tourism and air transport as well as meat and fish processing factories, calling for sharing of experience in various areas including teachers for Kiswahili and Arabic. President Magufuli also thanked the Sultan for supporting drilling of 100 boreholes in Tanzania, further urging that since the government is moving to Dodoma the government of Oman should consider undertaking an infrastructure project to act as a momentous history between the two nations. The meeting between Dr Magufuli and the Omani delegation was also attended by Minister of Energy, Dr Medard Kalemani and Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Co-operation, Dr Susan Kolimba.