Since 2012 he had been suffering from the disease and he had been referred to Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), but failed to raise enough funds for medical treatment. As he struggled to raise about 1m/- needed for medical costs, luck came on his side. A team of 15 medical specialists from Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) and Bugando Medical Centre (BMC), conducted a mobile clinic at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital from September 18-28, this year. The Medical Officer-in charge of the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital, Dr John Mwombeki revealed that about 5,000 patients registered themselves to get specialized treatment. We thank the specialists doctors for accepting the invitation to conduct the mobile clinic. Usually, patients travel long distances, all the way to Muhimbili and Bugando. It is very expensive and only few people can afford it, he said. About 888 patients implying 28.2 per cent out of 3,146 patients who received specialized treatment were diagnosed with cancer-related diseases. There are clear indicators that prostate cancer was on increase calling for joint efforts to control cancer-related diseases. Dr Mwombeki has long memories: ” When I was a young boy I witnessed many people dying each year in my home district due to unknown diseases. The number was big. Later, when I joined Muhimbili University College of Allied Sciences to take my degree programme in medicine I promised that upon graduation I should do something to help the poor people. Usually, such specialized operations at Bugando Medical Centre (BMC) or Muhimbili National hospital (MNH) could cost between 600,000/-to 1m/-, while patients who received operations during the mobile clinic at the Bukoba Regional Referral hospital paid only 65,000/-.” he said. According to Dr Mwombeki, people should invest in health by checking their status from time to time. Investing in health is very crucial. Weak and sick persons cannot contribute positively in national building economic activities. Strengthening healthcare systems to increase access to affordable, appropriate and quality health services in any country is a prerequisite for long-term development and structural transformation. Poor health hobbles economic growth. Proper diets, clothing, housing and quality healthcare all play an important role in generating economic growth. Poverty predisposes them to disease and slows all aspects of growth in the economy. Many people were still suffering from curable diseases but were unable to get timely treatment partly due to poverty and ignorance. The government has formulated enabling environment to enable people of all ages to get treatment and medicines at reduced price. Every year about 1,200- 1,300 Tanzanian men are diagnosed with prostate cancer, and many more may have prostate cancer but do not know about it. It is one of the most common forms of cancer in men around the world. People are highly encouraged to make regular checks of their health status bearing in mind that Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs), particularly cancer, diabetes and high blood pressure or hypertension are now on the rise in the country. The Minister for Health, Community, Gender, Elderly and Children, Ms Ummy Mwalimu has warned the public about the serious health risks that cervical and breast cancer were posing to women. She reckons that about 30 per cent of women reporting at the Ocean Road Cancer Hospital were diagnosed with cervical cancer while 12 per cent were diagnosed with breast cancer. Still worse, she said, 80 per cent of such patients were already in critical conditions. Twelve million Tanzanians live in extreme poverty earning less than $0.60 a day, according to the World Bank. Ms Mwalimu, has repeatedly called upon the people to adopt the culture of making regular checks of their health status through various campaigns. It is highly pleasing that at present there are campaigns going on to encourage women to turn out at various centres for screening of breast and cervix cancer. There are also campaigns urging the people to test for diabetes and high blood pressure, where in some cases diagnostic services are delivered free of charge. This unfortunate trend is generally on the rise globally and the risks are alarmingly high in developing nations, where diagnosis and treatment is always costly and a big challenge. Nearly one in ten people globally will have some form of diabetes by 2035, according to the International Diabetes Federation (IDF). The Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children, urges Tanzanians to take action and adopt healthier lifestyles to prevent the growing incidence of Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) or Lifestyle Diseases. The prevention of NCDs is high on Tanzania’s agenda. Minister Mwalimu has called for acceleration actions to address the risk factors contributing to NCDs. This call comes in response to an increasing trend of NCDs such as cancer, cardiovascular, diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases, largely brought on by poor lifestyles, such as unhealthy diets and physical inactivity. Evidence shows that tobacco use is increasing. There is also evidence of an increasing trend in overweight and obesity. In Tanzania, diabetes and cardiovascular diseases ranks among the top 10 diseases and among the top 15 inpatient causes of death. Another issue is that of alcohol abuse which is associated with a variety of problems, such as the risk of HIV infection. The diseases are of late becoming endemic in some parts of Tanzania. Diabetes, hypertension and cancer have now reached alarming proportions, a trend that needs radical measures to address the situation before things get out of control. The annual mortality rate per 100,000 people from prostate cancer in Tanzania has increased by 45.3 percent since 1990, an average of 2.0 percent a year. The three most deadly cancers in Tanzania during 2013 were other neoplasms, cervical cancer, and liver cancer respectively. Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in Tanzania accounted for an estimated 27 per cent of all mortality in 2008. An estimated 36 million deaths, or 63 per cent of the 57 million deaths that occurred globally in 2008, were due to Non- Communicable Diseases. Non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are a growing global epidemic that disproportionately affect low-and middle-income countries. In sub-Saharan Africa, they are now one of the leading causes of death among adults. Tanzania aims to raise awareness on how to prevent NCDs. This includes knowledge on nutrition, physical exercise, stress management and ensuring regular health check-ups. By knowing your health status, we are empowered to take action to improve and prevent NCDs. Companies are also encouraged to host Healthy Lifestyles Days as part of their wellness programmes. Suggested activities include: talks on HIV/ AIDS, nutrition, provision of testing for high cholesterol, high blood pressure, diabetes, BMI, to determine the risk of heart disease. By participating, companies can benefit from increased productivity, improved employee morale and ultimately secure its overall sustainability.