The association’s Secretary General, Kaushik Doshi confirmed yesterday in Dar es Salaam and named the beneficiaries as Dar es Salaam, Tanga, Arusha, Moshi, Lindi, Bagamoyo and Zanzibar. Doshi said the 20 ft container with hockey equipment is on its way to Dar es Salaam from the Netherlands. “It will be a massive boost in hockey as it will help in a campaign to make hockey a popular sport countrywide,” he said. Adding, the equipment is part of the support being offered by their development partners; Twende Foundation which is based in Netherlands. “This has only become possible after Tanzania Hockey Association signed a Memorandum of Understading (MoU) with Twende Foundation in 2016 with a view and vision to develop and promote this sports for all genders in the country,” he explained. On the other hand, Twende Foundation gathered a lot of hockey equipment over the past few months, whereby a number of hockey clubs and individuals based in Netherlands also assisted in collecting the equipment and donating the same to the foundation. The said container comprises hockey sticks, hockey balls, goalkeeper sets, coach gears, hockey stick bags along with the education materials. “Such action shall enable the youths of the both genders to take up this sport,” he said. Once the container arrives in the country, THA in conjunction with Valentina Quarantaa ( representative of Twende Foundation) will jointly distribute the equipment to schools in Dares salaam, Tanga, Arusha, Moshi, Lindi, Bagamoyo and Zanzibar whereby at the moment development of the sport is currently taking place in the schools based in the said regions. “Tanzania Hockey Association appreciates very much their development partners for their tireless and energetic efforts in getting the much needed hockey equipment in Tanzania,” he said. Doshi further said that they have also taken the note of the number of hockey clubs, Dutch Hockey Association, other International Organisations, individuals, who in one way or the other associated with Twende Foundation in making this dream come true.