Mbomipa is an acronym from the Swahili name, Matumizi Bora ya Malihai Idodi na Pawaga, officially translated in English as “Sustainable Use of Wildlife Resources in Idodi and Pawaga. Neighbouring the Ruaha National Park, the Mbomipa wildlife management area (WMA) is made up of land carved out from 21 villages located within Idodi and Pawaga administrative wards in Iringa Rural District. Prof. Maghembe issued the order while receiving a report on the matter over the weekend in Iringa Region. The review order came following a tour he made in the community’s area at Tungamalenga Village in Iringa District. Following a tour made in August, this year, and a report by the committee appointed to oversee the matter, the minister discovered various shortfalls on the draft and ordered its immediate review. He also ordered that the board of trustees of the community be dissolved with immediate effect, citing some of the shortfalls as ‘discrepancies’ between the draft constitution and the country’s principal laws that govern wildlife conservation -- together with its regulations. Prof. Maghembe also pointed out that the draft constitution did not define the means through which the community leaders would be elected, their responsibilities and how they would be held accountable. He added that the draft did not explain how the board of trustees would be made up, the responsibility of investors to the community and to the government in general. Prof. Maghembe was visibly ‘dismayed’ by apparent failure by the board of trustees to make Mbomipa profitable; instead, it relied heavily on donor support – totally failing to set up an organization that would support its own members in the surrounding villages. The report was presented by a state attorney at Iringa district council, Mr Kissah Mbilla, on behalf of the district executive directorate, and was discussed and various deliberations on its improvement were made. “After all these constructive contributions, go and make it better so that it can put in consideration all the key issues including that of equal distribution of revenue. Consideration of the animal paths and the number of members should consider all the villagers in the villages that established the community to avoid possible misunderstanding in the future,” he said. The meeting was attended by the deputy minister for Natural Resources and Tourism, Eng Ramo Makani, who also chaired the committee formed by Prof. Maghembe to investigate the Mbomipa row. Other members were made up by officials from the Iringa Regional Security Committee led by Iringa Regional Commissioner, Ms Amina Masenza.