This unique place is open for every visitor who wishes to pay a courtesy call on the home of Mwalimu and the Mwalimu Nyerere Museum which is equipped with rich, historical collections on Mwalimu, the teacher and revered leader. “We have made the residence of Mwalimu Nyerere accessible to the public, and can be visited by anybody. We’ve established during the visit, many people would like to know about the kind of a leader Mwalimu used to be, ” said Madaraka, the sixth son of Mwalimu, in an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News ‘ during a visit to Butiama early this week. Therefore, many people including students have been visiting Butiama to learn about his life and leadership. Mr Emmanuel Kiondo , the Director of Mwalimu Nyerere Museum says the museum has a variety of gifts and awards given to Mwalimu Nyerere, from various sources, inside and outside the country. It also has some of his clothes he used to wear and document ed historical information about his leadership. Upon arrival at the museum, one simply understand how Mwalimu was a great leader even without narration from the staff of the museum who are always available and ready to take visitors around and see what is inside. The museum receives an average of 10,000 visitors each year from different from in and outside the country. Mr Kiondo says their wish is to see this number going up significantly. He therefore invited local and foreign visitors so that they can experience real life of Mwalimu and many things that they do not know about him. “We are getting visitors from different parts of the country. Some are coming from outside the country. I call upon Tanzanians to visit Mwalimu Nyerere Museum so that they enjoy. There are many things to see and this is one of the amazing tourist destinations we have in Mara Region”, the director of the museum said. He said doors for visitors are open to visit the museum every day with students paying only Tanzania shillings 500/- per head, adults from Tanzania and other East African countries ( Sh 1,500) and foreigners (6,500/-) per head. Mwalimu Nyerere Museum is one of the several museums found in various parts of the country. The museum was officially inaugurated in July 2, 1999 by the former Prime Minister Fredrick Sumaye after its construction was successfully completed with the support of the government. “The construction of Mwalimu Nyerere Museum started in 1987-1999 and the view of the government was it that it was going to be the property of Mwalimu Nyerere and that is why it was built on his land but he (Nyerere) rejected and made it the property of Tanzanians and thus, this is one of the national museums”, Mr Kiondo narrated. Mr Madaraka is happy that despite that it is now 18 years with Mwalimu Nyerere still many people remember his father and talk good things about him. “Majority are talking good things about him (Mwalimu) that he was an ethical leader who put ahead the interests of his country. Besides that they say he was not a thief and he was a leader who worked so hard to build strong foundations of unit not only in Tanzania but in Africa as a whole”, Mr Madaraka said. His words were echoed by Ms Rosemary Nyerere during the same interview with the ‘Daily News’ on Tuesday. “18 years is a long time, still Mwalimu Nyerere is a role model,’’ Ms Rosemary who is also another child of the late Mwalimu Nyerere said. Rosemary and Madaraka have been given an opportunity to represent their family in the Board of Trustees of the Mwalimu Julius Kambarage Nyerere and Sheikh Amani Karume Trust Fund which is responsible to collect and preserve records and antiquities. Mr Madaraka further said he writes feature articles in newspapers and social media using Mwalimu Nyerere quotes in an effort to honour his works.