Works, Transport and Communications Minister, Prof Makame Mbarawa, inspecting the project area yesterday, said the scanners worth 27bn/- were of high quality and capacity and will play an increasingly important role. Prof Mbarawa added that the scanners will play a critical role in enhancing efficiency and checking tax evasions at the ports. “To ensure efficiency, we will make sure that all our ports and airports have high quality scanners, unlike in other government projects, we were given two years guarantee and 10 years assurance of spare availability,” he noted. He said that after completion, they will provide special training to those who will be running the scanners. Plans are also underway to upgrade the other scanners at the port. Last month, President John Magufuli issued a two-month ultimatum to Tanzania Ports Authority (TPA) to purchase four cargo-scanning machines at the Dar es Salaam Port. His directive came after he visited the port upon discovering that only two out of four scanning machines were functioning. The functioning machines, however, had no capacity of handling all goods imported into the country through the port, a situation suggesting poor control of cheats from business people. On system integration, TPA Director General, Engineer Deusdedit Kakoko, said they were currently working together with Tanzania Revenue Authority to see a better way to combine their system as directed by President Magufuli on 26 September. “We are working on how to integrate our Terminal Operating System (TPO) and Tanzania Customs Integrated System (TANCIS) by TRA,” he said. The TPA Boss said they have already identified those who will be operating the scanners and trainings will start next month to make sure they are well equipped with technical knowhow. On March this year, the container inspection system which was installed through a Chinese government grant, has the capacity of scanning 15 containers per hour, translating into 600 containers daily, the rate, which according to port officials, is far above the offloading capacity at the port.