Mr Mpina made the directive at the opening of the Third Tanzania Poultry Show which opened in Dar es Salaam, yesterday. “I conducted a surprise visit in Mwanga District of Kilimanjaro Region on Friday and witnessed the destruction caused by over 6,000 cattle that invaded the country from neighbouring countries looking for water and pastures … we have confiscated 1,325 cattle from one of the neighbouring countries, whose owners could not be located,” said Mr Mpina. He pointed out that he has directed the regional authority through the Attorney General (AG) to confiscate the animals and auction them today (yesterday). The Minister further noted that the number of cattle that have penetrated into the country are estimated to reach 18,000 in regions including Arusha (Loriondo), Mara (Tarime), Kilimanjaro, Songwe and Kigoma. According to Mr Mpina, at least 10,000 hectares of land have been destroyed by the animals; the areas include water sources, roads and green pastures. Generally, the environment has been destroyed badly in Mwanga District. He, however, revealed that the move is in line with the Animal Diseases Act of 2003 which bans importation of live animals into the country to prevent spread of diseases. “After the seven days, my ministry is going to run an operation to nationalise and auction the cattle of which I will require Regional Commissioners and District Commissioners to supervise the exercise intensively The objective is to protect our pastures, destruction of the environment and prevent spread of diseases,” affirmed the Minister. Among other things, he urged all livestock keepers in the country to avoid crossing the borders by any means possible to overcome similar problems. He reiterated that the government’s intention is to continue branding all cattle in the country to distinguish them from those from neighbouring countries. In line to that, the Minister also affirmed the government’s commitment to put in place favourable environment to support poultry business in the country. He said that the initiative will include creating systems that will promote poultry business to compete across the country. “Most people think that minerals are the only treasures for pushing development further, forgetting the wealth which can be found in the livestock sector … 90 per cent of poultry farming consists of both local chickens and broilers,” he said. Mr Mpina observed that the number of local chickens in the country is 37.5 million,whereas that of broilers is 34.5 million, but there are indicators that local chickens have started to disappear due to high rate of consumption. “During my tenure, I intend to bring major revolutions to the sector; I therefore require everyone who is operating under me to supervise the law in bringing in these changes,” noted Mr Mpina. The Chairman of the Tanzania Poultry Show, Mr Harko Bhagat hailed the government for its refusal to sign the Economic Partnership Agreement (EPA) deal, citing that granting it would have affected the business environment in the country. He also thanked the government for removing nuisance taxes and some of the permits in importing and exporting chicken supplies and products have boosted the development of the business. “The challenge we are facing is on accessing some of the chicken vaccines because the Tanzania Food and Drugs Authority (TFDA) has not registered an agent who will supply them,” observed Mr Bhagat. He called upon the government to support soya beans farming as demand for the cereal is high in the production of animal feeds. “The current production of soya beans runs to only 4,000 tonnes in the country while the demand for the product for animal feeds is on average 300,000 tonnes per month … this is a good business opportunity for Tanzanians to venture into, for the demand is high,” noted the Chairman. Third Tanzania Poultry Show welcomed 15 companies from some countries including Tanzania, Kenya, South Africa, India and Spain.