Teams of observers from the East African Community (EAC), European Union (EU) and African Union (AU) deployed to monitor the poll re-run have condemned acts of violence in the country. Independent Election and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) announced last evening that Kenyatta won the election by 98.2 per cent of the votes, with turnout put at just 39 per cent, less than half of Kenyans who voted in the August election. But, the observer missions have evaded revealing their stands on whether or not the repeated elections were free and fair. Former Speaker of the Ugandan Parliament Prof Edward Rugumayo led the EAC observer mission while the AU team was under former South African President Thabo Mbeki. Dutch Member of European Parliament Marietje Schaake led the EU team. There was also the Commonwealth Observation Mission under former Zambian President Rupiah Banda while the Intergovernmental Authority on Development Election Observation Mission was under Ambassador Tewolde Gebremeskel, the IGAD Director of Peace and Security Division and the National Democratic Institute Election Observation Mission, led by Pat Merloe among other observer groups. “We, the heads of the undersigned international observer missions present in Kenya issue this communiqué on the election rescheduled for the 28th of October. We have noted the decision of the IEBC to postpone polling in Homa Bay, Kisumu, Migori and Siaya counties, based on article 55b of the electoral law and recognise that all citizens have the right to vote or not to vote,” they said in their joint statement, adding: “We appreciate that the Constitution of Kenya guarantees the right to peaceful demonstration. Citizens have a responsibility to uphold the law whilst exercising their rights.” Delegates making up observer missions urged all Kenyans to refrain from unlawful acts and respect the rights of fellow citizens, including polling staff, independent observers and others who have a responsibility in the election process. They pointed out that it was imperative that the security forces provide protection to all citizens and avoid the excessive use of force, calling for full accountability of security agencies for all actions that resulted into injuries and loss of life. “We stand with the people of Kenya in their desire for a peaceful and united Kenya,” they stated in their statement, which was released here yesterday through the EAC Secretariat.