Prior to their seventh round outing, Yanga have never gone past a one-goal margin in the past six rounds of the ongoing league. The win seemed to be a response to Simba’s four goal victory they stamped in their match against league debutants, Njombe Mji at the Uhuru Stadium on Saturday. It was also a good day for Ibrahim Ajib who netted a brace as Pius Buswita and Obrey Chirwa also opened their goal accounts after a sixmatches goalless run. The victory has placed the Jangwani Street boys at the co-pilot seat while their traditional rivals Simba are firm at the helm with superior goal average. Winning with such big number of goals was the first this season for George Lwandamina’s charges creating a very exciting Kariakoo derby coming up on October 28 this year at Uhuru Stadium in Dar es Salaam. The visitors looked a side to emerge clean from the hostile away territory with veteran captain Nadir Carnavaro executing well his leadership responsibilities at Yanga’s rear department. Yanga took the lead in 24th minute of the first half thanks to Ajibu’s free-kick just outside the penalty box which went straight behind home side keeper Muhonge. As this was not enough, the ex-Simba playmaker utilised well a low-flying cross from Chirwa to strike the second goal making it hard for Stand United to come back and level the deficit before half-time. At resumption, the game was neutral with the hosts deploying more men at front hoping to derail the holding champions but clever play and aggressive displayed by Young Africans earned them a third goal in 53 minute with Buswita putting his mark on the score sheet. Obrey Chirwa was not shy either on target as his fantastic and clever turn in 74th minute left United keeper in awe after he failed to punch away a high flying ball which in the end fell on Chirwa’s right leg who easily hit the ball on the empty goal. Stand - Yanga match concluded the seventh round of the league after seven other matches staged in various venues on Friday and Saturday. Apart from Simba’s Njombe Mji drubbing, Mtibwa Sugar defeated Tanzania Prisons 1-0 win over Tanzania Prisons at Manungu Complex in Turiani while Azam, lost two more points in their barren draw with Mbao at CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza. It was also a tough weekend for Singida United who lost all three points in their 1-0 loss to Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara. The four-goal margin Simba stamped yesterday makes Msimbazi Street boys end the seventh round with 15 goals difference. Most importantly, Okwi who leads the golden boot race by far added his 8th goal yesterday when he scored the opener and Muzamir Yassin who netted a brace seems to have joined the race for the golden boot. Ajib’s brace in Shinyanga yesterday consolidate his race for the golden boot after reaching five goals. Tanzania Prisons, Mohamed Rashid who has netted four goals is among the notable marksmen this season. The match pitting traditional rivals, Simba and Yanga at the Uhuru Stadium, will herald the league’s eight round next week.