Speaking to journalists in Dar es Salaam yesterday, Lissu’s brother and the Family’s Spokesman Mr Alute Mughwai said that they will cooperate with the government in all procedures to make sure their brother recovers. “As a family we cannot ignore the government, we want this mat ter to be handled in normal order without politics being involved in it as his health is our priority. When he recovers he will return to politics,” he noted. Mr Mughwai further said they would continue to monitor the issue of investigations and Lissu’s treatment by involving important people and stakeholders. He further said the family had already written a letter to the government to request the matter to be handled quickly and in precise manner. On the content of the letter, he said, they suggested the importance of involving international investigation organs as stipulated in the in ternational co-operation in criminal matters act. “It is true that we are a free country but as a part of international community we work with other countries so that we can strengthen our independence. This is not new to our country because it has taken place in several cases in the coun try,” he noted. Lissu’s brother also urged the police force to use other means to interrogate the lawmaker’s driver instead of waiting for him to return in the country. “There is no need to wait for him to return in the country while we have Tanzania embassy in Nairobi that can be used to summon him and continue with their investigations, as the suspects of Lissu’s shooting are yet to be apprehended, the life of his driver might also be in danger,” he said. Mr Mughwai said the driver was receiving psychotherapy at the Nairobi Hospital; the police can also opt to provide protection for the driver and bring him in the country to speed up the investigations. Mr Lissu is still fighting for his life at the Nairobi Hospital, where he has been receiving treatment after being shot several times on September 7 by assailants, who have yet to be identified.