This was said by a prosecutor from the Prevention and Combatting of Corruption Bureau (PCCB), Mr Leonard Swai, before the court yesterday when the case came for mention. The prosecutor disclosed that the businessman was taken to MNH, as ordered by the court, on October 11, this year. “The report of the doctors’ findings will be given in a week’s time. In short, we have complied with the order given,” he submitted. The prosecution’s compliance was in line with the order by Principal Resident Magistrate Huruma Shaidi, who had given them 14 days to take the accused to MNH. Magistrate Shaidi had directed that if the orders would not have been complied with by October 13, this year, the Prisons Officer in Charge of Segerea Remand Prison should come before the court to show cause, why there is such disobedience. He said that in response to the submissions presented by Advocate Joseph Makandege, for the accused, charged alongside another businessman, James Rugemalira, in the matter, that the court was now tired of issuing orders which the other side in the trial, the prosecution, was not ready to comply. In his submissions, Mr Makandege had argued that in the last court sessions, there were series of orders issued by the court, requiring Sethi to be taken to MNH for treatment, as he is seriously sick and the Court had warned appropriate measures would be taken for non-compliance. Meanwhile, the defence yesterday registered its concern over inordinate delay of investigations into the matter, whose base of the charges originate from transactions occurred in 2013. Advocate Respicius Didace, for Rugemalira, told the court that the accused were first arraigned on June 19, this year. “Since then, the accused have been in remand and the prosecution keeps on saying that investigations are incomplete. For the accused to continue languishing in remand on incomplete investigations has affected their rights to liberty and freedom of movement,” he submitted. Responding to such submissions, Mr Swai informed the court that the trial of the accused persons involves forgery counts, which needed time to be investigated. He, however, promised to work on the matter to ensure the investigations are completed within a reasonable time on such offences. Under such circumstances, the prosecutor requested the court to adjourn the trial to another date for mention, pending further investigations. The magistrate granted the request and adjourned the case to October 27, when it will be mentioned. In the trial, the two businessmen are facing 12 counts of conspiracy, leading organised crime, forgery, uttering a false document, obtaining money by false pretences, occasioning loss to a specified authority and money laundering. Since their arraignment, there has been a tag of war between the prosecution and defence for Sethi, who is facing serious abdominal complications, to be taken to MNH for treatment. In response to such position, the court issued a number of orders, but the prosecution remained defiant. Mr Makandege had told the court that such disobedience by the prosecution was trampling on the authority vested on the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) of ensuring justice as per section 8 of the National Prosecutions Service Act. In exercise of powers and performance of his functions, according to him, the DPP shall observe several principles, notably the need to do justice and prevent abuse of legal process. “When we talk about legal process, it includes orders given by the court,” the advocate submitted. He explained further that the disobedience shown by the prosecution was an indication even the charges before the court were brought with hypocrisy aimed at punishing the accused before judgment and that the prosecution was turning itself as court. “We expected that when the prosecution brought these charges to court they will respect the orders. It is abuse of the legal process on refusal by the prosecution to comply with court orders. It constitutes abuse of expectation by the DPP to uphold justice,” the advocate pointed out.