The proposal is among the issues that Tanzania will table in the Workshop on the World Health Organization (WHO) Chemical Roadmap starting tomorrow in Geneva, Switzerland in which the country will be represented by the Chief Government Chemist, Prof Samwel Manyele. During a pre-meeting interview with the Chief Government Chemist, he said Tanzania has been given a chance to lead a panel discussion as it has a good record in the Strategic Approach to International Chemicals Management (SAICAM) whereas, the two ministries have been working together to bring the desired impacts in chemicals management. “Tanzania has been invited to attend this meeting organized by the WHO to assess the roadmap and see whether the suggested strategies in the Road Map are workable and to advise on areas of focus”, said Prof. Manyele. As a country, he said, the roles set by the government has been made clear for each ministry and institution to play its part, thus winning accolades for the job well done in the area of Chemicals Management. The Chief Government Chemist further stated that, “the country spokesperson regarding the International Conventions Issues (Rotterdam, Stockholm, Minamata and Basel Conventions) at international level is the Vice-President’s Office (Environment) for all the conventions. However, GCLA under Ministry of Health are the key players and implementers of the Rotterdam Convention”, insisted Prof. Manyele. The implementation of the Rotterdam Convention puts The Chief Government Chemist to task, being the Designated National Authority, to report and communicate to the UNEP Secretariat on matters related to Prior Informed Consent for Chemicals listed in Schedule 3, whenever they are being imported to Tanzania or being exported. The aim stated under SAICAM is that by 2020,the chemicals are produced and used with minimum adverse effect to the health and environment. SAICAM started in 2002 but the World Health Assembly started to be involved late in 2016. This created a gap since most of the member countries are connected to UNEP through the Ministries of Environment instead of Ministry of Health which is the core player. Tanzania has emerged to gain this advantage as it is represented by both the Vice-President’s Office (Environment) and the Ministry of Health, Community Development, Gender, Elders and Children under which we find the Government Chemist Laboratory Authority. Thus, he said, bringing health ministries on board should be made practically if the SAICAM issues stated in the goals are to be reached. The WHO Roadmap on Chemicals should come up with actions in ways that can work. “SAICM should take the health priorities on board and have agencies in the ministries of health that are active and well developed to take fast charge”, he proposed. Moreover, the country arguments, in measuring the chemicals management impact by SAICAM, poses questions such as, “did the indicators set on how to measure the adverse impacts of chemicals (be it international and national) indicators related to health impacts”, and “are the indicators being reported annually”. The answers will then realize to know the gap and come with a way forward for African Countries. Tanzania has made good progress, on health indicators related to Chemicals Management, since the GCLA has been collecting such information on indicators and are part of Health Ministry action plans and reports, every year. Prof Manyele added that when the indicators were set in 2002, WHO was not involved and the focus was on environmental impacts, but Tanzania is privileged, as both the two ministries were involved from day one, in bringing Rotterdam convention implementation issues in the SAICAM goals.