This is because the existing legislation limits the NSC on royalty received from the National Lottery only, amid the booming of sports betting in the country. Section 34(1) and (2)of Gaming Act No 4 of 2003 requires Tanzania Gaming Board to only allocate one half of money collected out of tax, fees or levies imposed from gaming activities and commission realised under agreement to run the national lottery. “The money allocated pursuant to subsection (1) shall be submitted to the National Sports Council,” sub-section 2 of the Act states. Since the national lottery hasn’t been conducted for more than three years, this means that the NSC has collected nothing from The Tanzania Gaming Board, according to the existing law. The NSC Secretary General Mohamed Kiganja confirmed to the ‘Daily News’ that the council has not received any amount of money from gaming board other than contributions from the board adding “We cannot demand it from other gaming activities including sports betting.” According to Kiganja, NSC is currently receiving a certain amount, which he was not ready to disclose, from Tanzania Gaming Board as just a contribution to the sports development. After witnessing the increased number of sport betting companies in the country, ‘Daily News’ sought an interview with Tanzania Gaming Board officials to know, among other issues, exactly number of registered players in the industry and revenues that have been collected in previous three years. However, a Tanzania Gaming Board official directed ‘Daily News’ reporter to file all questions that the paper sought to get answers, with promise to call after compilation of the facts and figures. But, for more than two weeks of waiting, ‘Daily News’ has not got a call from the board. But Kiganja said, NSC has the workload of supervising and promoting sports in the country, but is restricted with limited sources of funds. “NSC is now pushing for reforms of the existing 1967 National Sports Policy then law will be next,” Kiganja said and added “We want the amendment on the Gaming Act to give the Council more room of collections from other gaming including sports betting.” He, however, added that NSC has consulted the gaming board for initiating talks on amendments of Act that limits the council from accessing fund from taxes charged from other gambling games registered in the country. Reading 2016/17 Fiscal Year budget, Finance Minister, Philip Mpango directed the Tanzania Gaming Board to collect revenues reaching 34.72bn/-. Mpango was quoted as saying the board would contribute 2.17bn/- to the Treasury in the 2016/17 fiscal year, which is an increase of 50 per cent compared to the 2015/16 budget. Due to the booming of gaming in the country, through the Finance Act, No. 4 of 2017, the Parliament amended the Gaming Act, Cap 166 of the Laws of Tanzania and gave Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA) mandate to collect Gaming Tax with effect from 1st July, 2017. With these changes, TRA is now responsible for assessing, collecting and accounting for Gaming Tax Revenues. In 2013, BBC Sport quoted director of integrity and betting and sports data analyst Darren Small saying “the current estimations, which include both the illegal and legal markets, suggest the sports match-betting industry worth anywhere between $700bn and $1tn a year.”