Speaking during the handover ceremony at Segerea Prison in Dar es Salaam, Prison Service Commissioner General, Juma Malewa said the equipment will improve health services provision to prison staff, their families, prisoners and surrounding communities. “We are happy to receive these medical equipment and supplies that will be distributed to our health centres. The equipment is modern and we hope it will help solve many challenges facing prisons health centres in the country. He said that the donation includes modern hospital beds, operating tables, ultrasound machines and surgical instruments, saying such equipment is only available at Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) across the country. He pointed out that the Tanzania Prisons Services is in the process to construct a referral hospital with the aim to improve provision of health services in prisons. “We are in the early stages of building a referral hospital at Ukonga Prison that will help to improve provision of health services across the country. We call upon various stakeholders and other donors to support the efforts. The Country Director of JSI AIDS Free, Dr Beati Mboya, said that the medical equipment will be distributed to 26 prison health facilities supported by the USAID AIDS Free Strengthening Police and Prison Comprehensive HIV Services Project. “The United States government continues to show its commitment to comprehensive approach to strengthening health system in Tanzania. Our AIDSFree project aims to improve the quality of comprehensive HIV and TB prevention, treatment care and support services delivered at police and prison health care facilities,” he said. Acting Chief Medical Officer of Tanzania Mainland Prison Services, Dr Hilda Mmary said that the medical equipment will address the challenges of shortages of such items in prison hospitals in the country. “We thank AIDSFree for their support in the health sector. We call upon other institutions and organisations to provide support especially on the construction of our new prison referral hospital, so that many people get treatment and improve health services,” Ms Mmary said. The AIDSFree Project is currently servicing over 10,000 HIV positive individuals on sustained antiretroviral therapy, in addition to providing medical services to prisoners, prisons staff, among others, in Tanzania.