The report, dubbed ‘100% Renewable Energy for Tanzania,’ was unveiled in Dar es Salaam yesterday, and argues that the new renewable, including mainly wind, photo voltaic systems, ocean and geothermal energy, would then contribute 75 per cent to the total electricity consumed. The installed capacity of renewables would peak at about 20GW in 2030 and 60GW by 2050, the report says. The study was jointly conducted by the Bread for the World (BftW), World Future Council (WFC), Lilienstr institute based in Germany and Climate Action Network Tanzania. The researchers used energy scenario software for the long term projections and economic parameters which has been developed by the German Aerospace Centre (DLR). “… almost all renewable energy in Tanzania is technically and economically possible … a realistic pathway for Tanzania to align with the Paris Agreement and Sustainable Development Goals,” the report asserts. After 2020, growth shares from solar and geothermal energy would complete the variety of new energy sources under the basic renewable scenario. An approximate investment of $160bn (over 32trn/-) would be needed for this to become reality, including investments for replacement after the economic lifetime of the plants, totaling around US$5 billion per year. The total investment required for the advanced scenario to 2050 is Estimated at $310 billion (over 62trn/-), averaging $9 billion per year (about 1.8trn/-). The report argues that Tanzania has sufficient renewable energy resources to keep storage shares well below 20 per cent while securing supply of 100 per cent renewable energy. Mr Joachim Funfgelt, from the German based institution, Bread for the World, remarked that with the renewable energy Tanzania will advance itself to become middle income country and alleviate poverty. “Renewables are ideal for reducing poverty among the rural people,” CAN Tanzania Executive Director Sixbert Mwanga stated. An official with the Tanzania Traditional Energy Development Organisation (TaTEDO), Ms Mary Swai, pointed out that the renewable energies minimize environmental pollution because of low green house emission. A senior official in the Ministry for Energy, Engineer Nyaso Makwaya, said on the sidelines of the launch that renewable energies are most useful in power generation, domestic cooking and contributes to overall social economic development Eng Makwaya said given the environmental advantage of the renewable energy, the government is gearing up to developing the renewable energy resources. “… we’re currently assessing the resources across the country in order to attract investments, creating favorable environment including policy, strategies and special tax exemptions for renewable energies” she noted. She stated that research institutions are expected to play a great role in the promotion of renewable energy through research and development. According to recent statistics from the ministry and the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), 67.3 per cent of Tanzania’s households have access to electricity. The percentage varies significantly between urban households (97.3 per cent) and rural households (49.3 per cent).