Dr Kalemani made the pledge in Dar es Salaam yesterday when he met and held discussions with members of the Tanzania Electric Supply Company Limited (TANESCO) Board of Directors, the staff and its subsidiary companies to reveal his efficiency-enhancement strategies. “The country needs to have sufficient power supply which will support Industrialization; therefore we need to come up with strategies for ensuring that the goal is achieved by the year 2020,” said Dr Kalemani. Among his other plans include setting up reliable infrastructure that will support production and transmission of electricity to the 400Kv network. He furthermore revealed his intention to ensure that every home in the country had access to electricity in the next three years, declaring: “Our intention is to relegate power outages to history”. The minister sketched a plan for settling all outstanding debts that TANESCO was owed. Dr Kalemani observed that their current plan was to establish an E-payment system to facilitate collection and tracking of debts and customer bills through the country. Last month, the then Dep uty Minister for Energy and Minerals, Dr Kalemani, ordered a countrywide audit to establish the loss of electricity over a three-month period up to November. “We expect to receive a report which will give us a clear picture of the problem and expose the culprits… serious measures will be laid down to officials responsible in the deception,” he said. The minister also pledged to deal firmly with power thieves, including taking legal measures against them. He furthermore spoke of plans to establish centres in wards and divisions in the country, to enable people in rural areas with limited means to be easily connected to electricity. “I am urging community members to follow the right procedures when seeking power connections to their homes… don’t expose yourselves to middlemen who are out to prey on you,” he advised, adding: “TANESCO has made sure that no one pays any kind of application fees, other than installation charges."