In an exclusive interview with the ‘Daily News’ in Dar es Salaam this week, NSC Secretary General, Mohamed Kiganja has said clubs are paying such little amount due to the outdated National Sports Act No.12 of 1967, which also established the council. The 5,000/- as fee paid by clubs and associations, according to the secretary general, is not relevant regarding to the value of the currency. However, Kiganja told this paper that “NSC is now pushing for reforms of the existing 1967 National Sports Policy, followed by laws. NSC, which was established under Parliament Act No. 12 of 1967 and amended in 1971, has the role to promote and develop any kind of sports in the country, whereas sports associations and clubs are its major stakeholders. Despite of outdated legislations that limit NSC’s sources of fund, he said, the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports Harrison Mwakyembe and Tanzania Gaming Board have been very supportive to the council. Apart from fees paid by clubs and associations, the council is also entitled one per cent of total gate collections from stadiums and one half of money collected out of tax, fees or levies generated from national lottery and sponsorship. But the secretary told this paper that the cash is not sufficient for developing sports activities in the country though he anticipated positive outcomes if sports policy and the laws will be changed. Apart from planning the income generating activities, the NSC official said the council is focusing on strengthening sports associations by focusing on good governance. The secretary general said NSC has been insisting on the good governance and whenever council’s officials meet with sports association leaders they remind them on the importance of the matter. He was optimistic that the stronger associations will manage sports activities and lift the country to the international arena. Kiganja reminded associations to give more under 18 year-old youth ample time to participate in their respective senior teams to gain experience since they hold the future of Tanzania sports in international arenas.