The hosts retained the diadem after accumulating unassailable 1,394 points to defend the championship they won last year. Neighbours Zambia finished runners up after hauling 968 points while Kenya who bagged 957 points that helped them to finish third place, while Uganda finished fourth with 759 points. Swimming giants, South Africa finished fifth with 469 points ahead of Sudan who notched 459 points to trail this year’s competitive event. Zambia was voted the team with best spirited swimmers while Sudan which competed for the first time was named the most disciplined team. In her closing remarks, the Deputy Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Juliana Shonza said sports serve an important symbol of unity, friendship and fitness among people from different countries. “Today (yesterday) we have hosted five African nations through swimming, something which enabled us to facilitate good cooperation. It also helps to share experience and polish skills of the local talents,” Shonza said. Adding, the newly appointed minister also urged youth in the country to embrace sports as a source of employment. She also said swimming can be used to promote tourism in the nation as visitors who came for the swimming competition seized rare chance to visit various tourist attractions found in the country. Yesterday, Tanzania teams namely Tanzanite and Platinum continued to shine as they registered positive outcomes in various categories. In event 40 boys, Miller Judah and Imhoff Elia representing Tanzanite, managed to shine as they won gold and silver to occupy the first and second positions after clocking 33.97 and 35.74 respectively. Kenyan Michuki Michael who clocked 36:03, won bronze after finishing third. The home side team also seized the show in girls category where Tumiotto Sonia who represented Tanzanite team won a gold medal after finishing first, clocking 1:00:01 ahead of Grobler Jessica from South Africa who finished second in 1:02:10 while Imhoff Emma also from Tanzanite team won a bronze medal. In the race 95, Tanzanians also stole the show again through Tumiotto Sonia and Imhoff Emma who won gold and silver they clocked 2:32.10 and 2:37.96 respectively. Kenyan Karia Riva who finished third claimed bronze medal. In event 100m race for boys, Tanzania once again dominated the top two positions with De Villard Marin and Imhoff Elia standing tall after claiming gold and silver in 29.69 and 31.11 respectively while the third position went Fernando Khushal from Zambia who clocked 31.12. The Tanzanian flag was again raised up in race number 103 for girls courtesy of Tumiotto Sonia and Imhoff Emma who ended up the tight group while occupying the top two posts as they clocked 28.06 and 28.54 respectively while gaining 18 points to 16 points. The third slot went to the South African Grobler Jessica who clocked 28.56. It was the first time for Tanzania to stage such a high profile swimming championship which attracted six countries. They are South Africa, Zambia, Kenya, Uganda, South Sudan and the host Tanzania.