The report, tabled in the House by the Minister of State, President’s Office, Regional Administration, Local Government and Special Departments Mr. Haji Kheri, gives a hint on the magnitude of moral decline, a problem which is apparently taking root in the Isles. The report, which explains the government’s implementation of directives issued by the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Legal, Good Governance and Special Departments, focused on incidents registered in two regions of North Unguja and North Pemba. According to the report, North Unguja region registered 122 rape and sexual assault cases in 2016, and the number of reported incidents rose to 136 between January and July this year. North Pemba registered 101 sexual assault cases last year whilst a total of 41 cases were reported between January and July this year. Worryingly, the report paints a gloomy picture on the conviction rate in rape and sexual assault cases, which raises questions over the safety of women and children. Out of 258 cases filed in North Unguja, only 11 suspects were convicted. The report shows that 18 case files were closed, 52 cases are still in court while investigation for 161 cases is yet to be completed. The State Minister told the House that out of the 142 cases registered in North Pemba, 78 were resolved, 38 are still in court and 31 are still being investigated by police. In its report, the Standing Committee on Legal, Good Governance and Special Departments raised great concern over rising sexual assault and rape crimes and tasked the government and law enforcement organs to impose harsher penalties to those convicted. The committee noted that although the regional administration has been making efforts to address the problem, still rape and sexual assault incidents were rampant in North Unguja. It therefore, issued a call to regional government in collaboration with other relevant authorities to ensure sex crime offenders are reprimanded accordingly. “The committee advices the regional authority to take measures and create public awareness so that people refrain from child abuse,” said the committee’s chairman.