The Vice-President made the directive while inaugurating the new Olduvai Gorge Museum which is the world’s only human history museum, built right at the archaeological discovery site, within the Ngorongoro Conservation Area Authority (NCAA). “We have the largest museum in Africa, but it is yet to be fully completed; I want this facility to be fully high tech and this can only be achieved if the museum officials can be trained on how to make this technological stride,” stated the Vice-President. According to her, the officials should be taken to Dubai and learn how to do it from there. “I am sure the Minister of Natural Resources and Tourism has proper contacts and connections in the UAE to facilitate the training there,” said Mama Samia. Built at the cost of 1.7 billion/- with 80 per cent of the funds coming from the European Union (EU) while the remaining 20 per cent was footed by the government, the Olduvai Gorge Museum contains all the historical human remains and archaeological discoveries collected from all over Africa. Structures include 666 square metres of the main museum building, 284 square metres of business centre premises; a restaurant measuring 125 square metres, the main reception and gate at 22 square metres. Olduvai Gorge Museum, which is also the only museum under the sun to be built on the remote site where archaeological remains have been excavated since 1930s, is said to be the world’s only portal in the simulated time-travelling adventure which will take global residents into trance dating back four million years. Prof Maghembe had earlier on explained that the Gorge was going to be the only museum in the world which boasts of complete pieces of human history and ancestry development over years. It is a product of the Tanzanian Government through its National Museums, which owns the Olduvai and Laetoli discovery sites and the European Union (EU) which bankrolled the facility. The museum contains all the archaeological findings, artefacts as well as replicas from various sites in Tanzania, Kenya, Ethiopia and South Africa, among other places. “Here, people will get the opportunity to see the remains of ‘Lucy’ the so-called grandmother of humanity,” Dr Agnes Gidna, a conservator from the National Museum Headquarters in Dares-Salaam had earlier on stated. Dr Gidna revealed that Lucy is the most complete skeleton of an early human ancestor ever discovered. The lady who lived 3.2 million years ago, is member of Australopithecus afarensis, the fossil which was discovered in Ethiopia. Beating that however, is Tanzania’s own set of hominid footprints dating back to four million years and which were traced at the adjacent Laetoli site. Olduvai Gorge, the Archaeological and Excavation site where Dr Mary Leakey together with her husband Louis once worked, is in the process of converting the former scientist’s residential and working building into Museum.