The Head of State was speaking in Dar es Salaam yesterday, shortly after receiving a progressive report on oil explorations in the two potential sites, from a team of experts from Tanzania and Uganda. He said the government was ready to facilitate all activities and projects that would facilitate discovery of oil on the identified sites. The President directed Tanzanian experts to continue working closely with their counterparts from Uganda, whose experience has been enriched by discovery of the resource in Lake Albert. According to the exploration team, geo logical elements in Sekenke, Mwanzugi and Kining’inila within Manonga Valley in Tabora Region’s Igunga District, were encouraging pointers. The experts said the geographical position of Eyasi Wembere Basin, as well as availability of rocks and other signs, were identical to other areas where oil had been found after exploration. President Magufuli extended his gratitude to the Ugandan team, asking the deputy Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Energy and Minerals of Uganda, Mr Robert Kasande, to deliver a message of appreciation to President Yoweri Museveni for his support for the ongoing oil exploration project. The meeting was also attended by Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa, the Deputy Minister for Energy and Minerals, Dr Medard Kalemani, and Uganda’s High Commissioner to Tanzania, Mr Richard Kabonero. Meanwhile, President Magufuli swore in Major-General Issa Nassoro and Deputy Inspector-General of Police Abdulrahman Kaniki, as Tanzania’s ambassadors to Egypt and Zambia, respectively. According to a State House press statement released yesterday, the ceremony which was held at Ikulu was attended by Prime Minister Majaliwa and Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs and East African Co-operation, Dr Susan Kolimba. Shortly after the ceremony, Ambassador Nassoro promised that he would focus more on economic diplomacy, a new strategy currently pursued by the rest of the world. On his part, Ambassador Kaniki thanked President Magufuli for appointing him, promising that he would strive to cement the relations between Tanzania and Zambia which stretch back to the reigns of founding fathers Mwalimu Julius Nyerere and Dr Kenneth Kaunda. Ambassador Kaniki also pledged to focus serious attention on efforts towards realizing the government’s ambition to convert the Tanzania Zambia Railway Authority (TAZARA) into an economic backbone between the two countries.