At least 26 out of 32 tourist hotels/restaurants registered to take part in Zanzibar’s famous Stone Town food festival which showcased mouth-watering selection of local dishes including sea foods, vegetables, fresh juice and many more. “We were excited to sample on the local foods some of which we’ve never seen before,” this has been a comment from many customers like Ms Shyma Seif Sharif from Mbweni who said promoting local foods was important. The second Stone Town Food festival was held here from October 9th and ended last Saturday attracting many foreigners and residents, justifying its launch last year with the aim of boosting both domestic and foreign tourism. Some observers were of the opinion that many operators in the tourism industry have been concentrating on travel and accommodation, had often neglected the impact of local dishes on tourism. The observers say that when tourists relish on a local dish, they do not only satisfy their hunger but also experience the local culture, and interact with their hosts as some tourists travel solely for gastronomy. Based on studies and analyses on tourists’ perceptions of local food, Zanzibar has become among developing countries now promoting local foods and culture to attract and increase the number of tourists. The Minister for Information, Tourism, Culture, and Sports Mr Rashid Ali Juma said that the ‘Stone Town Food Festival’ was among government’s strategies to increase the number of tourists on the islands, now heavily relying on the industry. “We are happy to have food festivals, which are growing in numbers these days because of the government’s initiatives to look for more options to attract local and foreign tourists,” Mr Juma said. The minister appealed to residents and visitors to support the festivals by attending the events and also share their experiences in preparing local foods, and also encourage people to organize traditional or cultural events to advertise Zanzibar . In addition to the Stone Town food festival, other cultural and food festivals that have been established and organized on different dates are in Makunduchi, Kizimkazi, in South Unguja and Nungwi, in north Unguja. According to the minister, tourism contributes 25 to 27 percent to the National GDP, leading foreign exchange earner with about 80 percent of the foreign currency, and provides more than 40,000 employments. Mr Garry Friend, General Manager, Park Hyatt- Zanzibar, one of the organizers of the Stone Town Food Festival said hotels/restaurants which took part in the event, lowered the price of food, offering a two-course meal for not more than 38,000/- instead of the normal price of 68,000/-. He said: “Our vision is to use food festivals to promote tourism in Zanzibar, considering the fact that our Island is known worldwide for authentic spices and herbs.” The six days festival was held in individual restaurants and also including a 2-day ‘street food’ at Forodhani Gardens a place, already famous for its evening street food vendors. Local chefs and owners of restaurants came along to show their foods and drinks, a rare event that they meet so many people at the local food scene in one place, and also foreigners and locals to easily mix and share food. Mr Emannuel Stephan, Food and Beverage Manager, Golden Tulip Hotel- said that the availability of local foods of good quality may become one of the reasons for visitors and tourists selecting Zanzibar to visit, as food is an expression of local culture. He said “organizing local food festival is thinking out of the box, but it should be implemented alongside changing the perception of local people that festivals are for foreigners, so that they can visit and enjoy.” Ms Milvas Burnice, Marketing and Communication Manager, Park Hyatt, said this year’s festival was bigger than the previous one because many people attended and more food varieties, including dishes from Middle East and Asia were on display. “This festival is for locals and foreigners. We invite people from neighbouring countries and regions of Tanzania Mainland to come and join us during the festivals,” Ms Burnice said. Ms Mary Njoroge from Double Tree said: “We had a nice week of local cuisine, coloured by coconut foods, chocolate, and many others conforming to hygiene and meeting international standards. ” She said although the food is local, hygiene remains a priority when preparing, as she encouraged more restaurants to take part in all future festivals so as to make it bigger because Zanzibar and the east African region a lot of foods still unknown to the foreigners. Ms Njoroge observes that the food festivals are an addition to the existing ‘Sauti ya Busara music festival’, ‘Zanzibar International Film Festival (ZIFF)’, and the national cultural festival, all need to be promoted. Mr Rashid Alley from Emerson Spice Hotel said many foreigners liked the sardine soup and porridge was liked by many visitors, and that the price was as low as five thousand (5,000/=). He said, there had been increasing number of food festivals in different parts of the world and certain towns are becoming recognised centres of food tourism, an opportunity also for local producers/ farmers. After the launch of the new campaign to domestic tourism by encouraging citizens to visit the Island’s historical and cultural sites, authorities are now pushing people to take part in food festivals. The deputy Minister responsible for tourism Ms Chumu Kombo Khamis said that promoting and showcasing Zanzibar as a resourceful place of Gastronomy remain important to the local and international tourists. She said with Food Festival 2017, visitors and residents got to experience over 100 tasty foods from local restaurants along with discounts and promotions from multiple hotels in the stone town. Zanzibar has announced that the food festival is now an annual event for the month of September and October, following a successful opening last year with good collaborations from all parties involved. The activities draw a lot of attention as not only that the Chefs were great around the kitchen; they were also great looking people, and some women from the UK observed, “It was a great opportunity for people in Stone Town to join hands and become great hosts to both domestic and international tourists from different parts of the World.” Not only that Zanzibar is already well known for its natural beauty of the beaches, sand, sun, historical buildings and other sites, it should also be known for its varieties of Foods with yummy taste. The UNESCO World Heritage city of Stone Town celebrated its second annual food festival in honour of World Food Day; this year’s festival drew more flavours and fusion cuisines from all around Stone Town. Stone Town is the heartbeat of Zanzibar and has literally drawn people from all corners of the world for centuries by creating tantalizing Swahili cuisine. Due to the tourism boom in the last decade, the city has seen a rise in restaurants and cafes serving worldwide cuisines, adding more international influence to Zanzibar.