The thrilling Mainland Premier League clash saw outstanding saves by Mtibwa Sugar’s goalkeeper, Benedict Tinoco denying Yanga maximum points. The results means, for the third time and twice at home game, Yanga struggled to break through opponents set up defensively, compared to last season where they were scoring at ease. What’s more, after labouring to create chances, the hosts weren’t able to put them away. Mtibwa Sugar improved late but, still, this was two points dropped for either side. The Morogoro lads remained at the summit of the league table after collecting 11 points from five outings, while Yanga move above rivals Simba to fifth place on nine points from five matches. Azam FC, who played out to a 1-1 draw with host Singida United at the Jamhuri Stadium in Dodoma yesterday, remain second level with Mtibwa Sugar on 11 points and the third place is occupied by Singida United on ten points from five matches. Tanzania Prisons, who fought to a 1-1 draw with Mbao FC at the CCM Kirumba Stadium in Mwanza yesterday, also moved above Simba to fourth place on nine points from five matches. However, yesterday’s results presented an opportunity for Simba to go top of the log if they win their today’s fixture against hosts Stand United at the CCM Kambarage Stadium in Shinyanga. The win will see Simba go top on goal difference advantage because they will post 11 points same as Mtibwa Sugar and Azam FC. At the Uhuru Stadium yesterday, Yanga fired blanks despite dictating terms from the onset. George Lwandamina’s side needs to start finishing off their opposition. Yanga dominated for large periods of the game, particularly in the second half, but their carelessness cost them when it mattered most. Zimbabwean striker, Donald Ngoma, who was deployed upfront alongside Zambian Aubrey Chirwa failed to impress than he managed in the previous matches. It’s becoming increasingly clear he isn’t the player Yanga need to lead the line because he has yet to hit back his 100 per cent fitness. It was a lighting start for Yanga and few seconds from the kick off left wing back, Gadiel Michael raced down the left but it appeared that he was caught from behind by Salum Kanoni, but the referee ignored Yanga’s shout for a penalty. Ibrahim Ajib was the livelier player for Yanga upfront but he was in most occasion operating from the flanks, although he managed to deliver several lethal shots. His cross deep into the box in the 13th minute was cleared by Issa Rashid. Then in the 25th minute, goal bound Chirwa was blocked by the onrushing keeper. As usual, Ajib, who prefers to drop off the striker and create outside the box chances threatened from the set pieces but outstanding goalkeeping denied him goals. Tinoco produced a superb save in the 28th minute, parrying off Ajib’s clever low shot from a set piece For Mtibwa Sugar, it was a more of defensive tactics as Stahimili Mbonde started as a lone striker and although he offered a more physical performance, he rarely threatened Yanga defence. After half an hour mark, Mbonde failed to make contact with Salim Kihingwa’s cross deep cross in the box. With four minutes to go, midfielder, Raphael Daud skied a shot wide 35 yards out as Yanga were on ascendency. After the break, Yanga continued to look a side more likely to score, but the story was the same. Mtibwa introduced Kelvin Sabato, Henry Joseph and Salim Kihimbwa, respectively, while Yanga brought in Geoffrey Mwaishuya for Raphael Daud, the changes which benefited most host Yanga as Lwandamina’s side piled more pressure. In the 68th minute, Yanga survived a real scare, Mohamed Issa forced keeper, Youthe Rostand to dive low and push away his shot. Yanga replied in the 73rd minute, when Mwaishuya’s cross was well met with Ajib outer shot but the keeper was well positioned to parry his initial shot away and his reflexive save denied Pius Buswita’s follow up shot. Then, in the 79th minute, Tinoco fumbled with Mwaishuya’s cross but substitute Juma Mahadhi failed to finish it off, as the ball rolled out. Mwadui FC battled to a 2-2 draw with Mbeya City at the Mwadui Complex, while Ruvu Shooting fought to a1-1 draw with Njombe Mji at the Mabatini ground in Coast region. Majimaji were held to a barren draw by bottom placed Kagera Sugar at the Majimaji Stadium in Songea. Ndanda FC beat Lipuli FC 2-1 at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara.