Christened 2017 Open Championship, the tournament is organised by Tanzania Golf Union (TGU) in collaboration with hosts Kili Golf and Wildlife Resort which stages the tournament for the second consecutive year. It’s the three-day tournament scheduled to tee off from November 11 to 13 in Arusha. The Tanzania Open is scheduled to tee off from 11-13 November at Arusha. The 68th edition of the annual tournament which brings together professional and amateur golfers is one of the top East African golf events. TGU Chairman, Joseph Tango, told the ‘Sunday News’ in Dar es Salaam yesterday that preparation for the prestigious championship is on top gear. He said the 72-hole championship is open for both men’s and ladies players and he is optimistic golfers will once again enjoy facilities at the ultra modern golf course. “The Kili Golf and Wildlife Resort is magnificent view of the 18-hole par 73 golf facility, it presents nature in its correct meaning, it is going to be a wonderful experience for the golfers who return to play at the course,” he said. Tango said the three day event will see Division A players compete in 36 holes on opening day and another 18 holes Day 2 and Day 3 to complete 72 holes. But he said golfers who compete at other categories namely Division B and C, senior, ladies and juniors athletes will battle it out in the 36-hole competition. “Lots of amazing prizes and over 17 million on professional prize money await the November event winners,” he explained. Tango, however, said that the door is already open for those wishing to take part to register through tzopen@ kiligolf.com or TGU affiliated members clubs. He said the event will also be used to support Kili Golf Community Education and the Kiligolf Young Golfers funds. The golf course is constructed between Mt Kilimanjaro and Mt Meru on 1,040 acres of prime African bush land, boasting an expansive 18 hole offers visiting golfers a touristic view of Tanzania, yet golfers must expect more than just golf considering the massive water land marks - read the popular Usa River Story cutting through the course.