But there were three venues that never witnessed a goal celebrations after their results ended in barren draws. Tanzania Prisons, mostly often classed in the top five runners, were held to a barren draw at home by Stand United, while at Mabatini ground in Mlandizi, Ruvu Shooting were also forced to tie with Singida United in a no-goal encounter and the same occurred in a match between Njombe Mji and Lipuli FC in Njombe. Venues in the Lake Zone, however, continue to lead in entertaining fans for many weeks now. Out of all 13 goals netted in the sixth round, nine of them were scored in the three venues of Lake Zone; Bukoba where three goals were scored in Yanga’s 2-1 win over Kagera Sugar, four goals were added in Mwanza where Mbao FC drew 2-2 with Mbeya City while two more goals were converted in Mwadui’s 1-1 draw against Azam. Mathematically about 70 per cent of all goals were recorded in Lake Zone alone while there were only two goals netted at Uhuru Stadium when Simba drew with Mtibwa Sugar 1-1 and two other were netted at Nangwanda Stadium where hosts Ndanda FC drew 1-1 with Majimaji. The results, as analyst Ally Mayai put it, depict maturity of all league teams and matching of players skills, something he said likely to make the title race even more complicated. “All teams seemed to be well equipped for the mission, therefore there is no team fitting the underdog status,” said Mayai when commenting on the match between Simba and Mtibwa Sugar at the Uhuru Stadium on Sunday. Similar views came from Simba Assistant Coach, Jackson Mayanja who said all teams boost quality players, but there is individual brilliance noticeable in some of players in a few occasions. He said Emmanuel Okwi who netted the equalising goal for his team in the stoppage minute, was one of the few players with individual brilliance. Also, the sixth round has demonstrated that teams which have no professional players, like Mtibwa Sugar can equally stage a huge resistance to those teams known as ‘big spenders’ as evidenced by how triple big clubs in the country namely Simba, Yanga and Azam struggle when they play small teams. Holders Young Africans, who had the best weekend in Kagera, are the only side to get essential three points on Saturday as they stunned host Kagera Sugar 2-1 at Kaitaba Stadium in Kagera, thanks to Aubrey Chirwa and Ibrahim Ajib who scored in each half respectively while the consolation goal by the home team was made possible by Kibaya whose header sent Yanga’s keeper Youthe Rostand in the wrong direction. Generally, it was a must win match for the Jangwani Street boys to keep up pressure at the summit of the league table which until now is fragile meaning that no team is hundred percent sure to top the log for a long time.