The victory saw the defending champion tied on 12 points with Azam FC, who were held to a 1-1 draw by host Mwadui FC at the Mwadui Complex in Shinyanga yesterday. Yanga and Azam are also tied on goal difference (+3) but George Lwandamina’s side take the league leadership because they have scored more goals than Azam. Yanga have scored six, while Azam have netted five goals. At the Kaitaba Stadium in Bukoba, Yanga’s disappointing start to the season looked set to continue after slightly starting with a back foot. Despite the victory, this was still not the imperious Yanga of last season but at least Ajib’s impressive display gave them a morale-boosting victory. Ajib crafted the first goal and scored the second, showing some clever footwork and has rightly taken the plaudits in recent weeks for his relentless scoring form, netting three so far. Nine minutes into play, Kagera Sugar’s Jaffar Kibaya almost found the back of the net but his bullet header could not hit the target. Then veteran defender, Kelvin Yondani stood firm to stop goal bound Kibaya in the 15th minute. Kibaya looked a constant threat on Yanga’s defence and in the 20th minute, the striker outsmarted Andrew Vincent but his fierce shot slightly sailed wide. Yanga recovered and were off the mark in the 24th minute, Geoffrey Mwaishuya’s cross was cleared by veteran defender, Juma Nyosso. Five minutes later, midfielder, Pius Buswita tested goalkeeper Juma Kaseja with a teasing shot, but the veteran custodian was smart to catch the ball with ease. Chirwa forced himself into the box in the 34th minute but failed to make the most from a chance created as Nyosso threw his body on the floor to block the shot. Yanga kept on pressing hard and two minutes later, Pappy Kabamba Tshishimbi took a sharp turn but his feeble shot was easily collected by Kaseja. Yanga’s efforts were rewarded five minutes before the break, when Chirwa turned around Nyoso to chip past Kaseja. He received a well crafted pass from Ajib, who latched onto a Gadiel Michael’s pass and drifted away from defenders before cleverly setting up Chirwa inside the box. After the break, Yanga started strongly and they doubled their lead in the 48th minute through Ajib, who easily put the ball into the back of the net from Chirwa’s back pass after Kagera Sugar shoddy defence failed to clear their lines. As Yanga were still celebrating, Kagera pulled one back four minutes later after Kibaya’s header caught goalkeeper Youthe Rostand pants down. He nodded home Venance Ludovick’s cross. The goal was a wake call to Maxime side, who fought harder in the hunt of an equaliser, but Yanga were careful to clear off all the threat in their goal. In the effort to hunt for the equaliser, Kagera introduced Themi Felix for Christopher Edward, while Yanga brought in Emmanuel Martin and Raphael Daud for Geoffrey Mwaishuya and Said Makapu respectively, but the changes had little impact to the game. At the Mwadui Complex, Azam skipper Himid Mao put ahead his side through a spot kick awarded in the early minutes of the game but Mwadui rescued themselves from another defeat at home after scoring an equaliser in the dying minutes of the game. In other matches, Singida United were held to a barren draw by Ruvu Shooting at Mabitini ground in Mlandizi, Coast region, while Njombe Mji and Lipuli FC also fought to a goalless draw. Majimaji FC forced a 1-1 draw against Ndanda FC at the Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara. The league continues today with Simba taking on Mtibwa Sugar at the Uhuru Stadium, while Tanzania Prisons welcome Stand United at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya.