Only Mtibwa Sugar continued to cling close behind Simba following their 1-0 win over Tanzania Prisons at Manungu Complex in Turiani as Azam lost two more points in their barren draw with Mbao while Singida United lost all three points in their 1-0 loss to Ndanda FC at Nangwanda Sijaona Stadium in Mtwara. The four-goal margin Simba stamped yesterday makes Msimbazi Street boys end the seventh round with 15 goal difference, that will take Simba rivals many rounds to surpass. Most importantly, Okwi who leads the golden boots race by far added his 8th goal when he scored then opener and Muzamir Yassin who netted a brace yesterday seems to have joined the race for the golden boot. Simba’s 4-0 victory also gave their newly recruited Burundian Coach, Masoud Djuma Irangoma, a warm welcome as he and the Head Coach, Joseph Omog are preparing their team to face their arch-rivals, Young Africans at the same venue next week. While Simba earning the 4-0 victory their newly recruited Burundian Assistant Coach Masudi failed to be on the team bench as the club is said to have not yet earned his working and resident permits and his professional certificates to the Tanzania Football Federation (TFF) forcing him to watch the game on the stand. Despite that Simba displayed superb footwork to earn a lion’s share of the match as visitors Njombe Mji showed that they have no match to the league leaders who after wasting several scoring chances they created took the lead in the 27 minute through evergreen Ugandan international Emmanuel Okwi. Okwi netted the goal from a cross received from the overlapping fullback, Erasto Nyoni despite being under tight marking of two defenders as he managed to go in the air and nodded home the ball into the corner of the goal to beat goalkeeper David Kisu. Simba continued pushing for more goals but Njombe managed to contain the pressure and clear the threat directed to their goal by Shiza Kichuya, Okwi, Muzamiru Yassin, Haruna Niyonzima and Laudit Mavugo. But struggling Njombe Mji nearly had an equaliser few minutes before going into the break but Ditram Nchimbi failed to cultivate on Nyoni blunders whose blind pass was snatched close to the box but the shot went off target after a good job from goalkeeper Aishi Manula who came off his goal line to challenge him. In the resumption Simba looked more dangerous looking for more goals as they came in with high tempo compared to their opponents and in the early minute of the second half Okwi nearly added the second goal after receiving pass but he was off target. After the miss goal hungry Simba striking force scored two quick goals through Muzamir Yassin in the 51th minute after he cultivated on Kichuya’s penetration pass to double his side lead and two minutes later he scored his second of the match from Okwi’s pass to make the score 3-0. Joseph Omog’s side continued hunting for more goals and an effort from midfielder Jonas Mkude blockbuster shot went off target few inches but Mavugo came into the picture in the 58th minute when he nodded home easily Kichuya cross from the flank to add the fourth goal. In other games held yesterday at the Sokoine Stadium in Mbeya, Mbeya City emerged with a 2-0 victory against Ruvu Shooting while in Iringa; Lipuli FC utilised the home ground advantage after earning a 1-0 win over Majimaji FC at the Samora Stadium. The league continues today whereby the league defending champions Young Africans will be away at the Kambarage Stadium to face their host Stand United who are currently settled in the last but on position ahead of Kagera Sugar.