The Permanent Secretary (PS) in the Vice-President’s Office, Prof Faustine Kamuzora, told the Daily News in Dar es Salaam that all stakeholders were being fully engaged before taking any decision in accordance to the National Environment Policy of 1997. Banning the use of plastic bags in Kenya came into effect in August, this year, after 10 years of disagreement between stakeholders and court actions challenging the legality of impending bans. According to Prof Kamuzora, the environment policy requires full engagement of stakeholders, so the government won’t rush or impose the ban on the use of plastic bags until all concerned were fully consulted. In order to achieve relevance and credibility as an environmental agendasetter, Section 89 of the National Environment Policy 1997 states, the ministry “... shall provide timely and substantive policy positions, representing powerful collections of voice for ensuring that government’s perspective on the environment is conveyed in timely and conveyed manner. ”Prof Kamuzora added that the government had since begun engaging stakeholders at various stages of its decision-making process - before making any final decision on the proposed ban. In collecting ‘stakeholder views’ in Dar es Salaam, Mr January Makamba, the Minister of State in the Vice-President’s Office (Union and Environment Affairs), held such discussions in July, this year. In the meantime, the chairperson of the Tanzania Plastic Manufacturers Association, Mr Joseph Wasonga, was quoted as suggesting that the government should not impose the ban; instead, it should (only work) to control the use of the bags. In other words, PMAT believes that Tanzania stands to lose more than $23m annual revenues, putting some 6,000-odd jobs in jeopardy, if government moves to limit the manufacture and limit the use of plastic bags. However, Mr Jumanne Mgoga, who chairs the union of producers of what they call ‘Alternative Bags’ has been quoted as saying the bags (currently on sale) were “hazardous to the environment and human health.” Ms Hanne-Marie Kaarstad, Ambassador of the Royal Norwegian Embassy in Tanzania, was quoted by the Daily News last May (this year) as saying that plastic bags “make quite a havoc blocking drainage systems, which causes flooding, leading to outbreaks of waterborne diseases including Typhoid and cholera.’ \And when it rains across the city of Dar es Salaam, plastic bags are said to “trigger traffic chaos and accidents across Dar es Salaam and the rest of the country,” even as drains are blocked and filthy water cascades across potholed roads. “They basically contribute to environmental degradation and pollution, block sewage pipes, kill sea life and destroy eco-systems,” the anti-plastic bag lobby says. Last month, Kenya announced that producing, selling or even using plastic bags would risk imprisonment of up to four years or fines of $40,000 - considered the world’s toughest law aimed at reducing plastic use to protect environment. According to The Guardian of the UK, more than 40 other countries have either banned, partly banned or taxed single-use plastic bags, including China, France, Rwanda and Italy.