The Director General of the anti-corruption watchdog, Mr Valentino Mlowola, explained that the bureau managed to save the funds before they were pounced upon by some dishonest public servants across the country. “During the financial year 2015/2016 a total of 53.8bn/- was saved and the amount reduced to 14.4bn/- during the current financial year,” Mr Mlowola elaborated when responding to questions from journalists at the PCCB head office in Dar es Salaam. The PCCB boss had earlier informed the Minister of State in the President’s Office (Public Service Management and Good Governance), Capt (Rtd) George Mkuchika, that the bureau had intervened and saved 14.4bn/- during the current financial year. The Minister was officiating at the annual meeting bringing together directors, heads of departments and units as well as zonal inspectors, regional commanders and other high ranking officials of the bureau countrywide. The funds in question, according to the PCCB boss, were those which were being paid to ghost workers, the other chunk being for projects which were stopped after it was discovered that they were not approved by responsible authorities. “There were also other officials who agreed to return funds which they had swindled from public coffers; in most cases these are those with little amount of money which they abused and agreed to pay back after being pinned down by the bureau,” he stated. Mr Mlowola thanked members of the public for closely co-operating with the bureau, by furnishing it with information to pin-down corrupt officials. “And, now that the government has allocated 40 per cent of the total budget for development projects, the bureau will tighten the grip to ensure the money is used for intended use; no thieving official will be spared,” Mr Mlowola pledged before the Minister. Speaking at the occasion, Capt (Rtd) Mkuchika urged the bureau to intensify the fight against all forms of corruption without fear or favour. “Petty corruption for instance is a nuisance affecting many ordinary people; it makes citizens, particularly in rural areas, fail to access improved social services,” he noted. The Minister directed further that officials of PCCB across the country should make a close-follow on all funds to be channelled to implement development projects. “It is your obligation to ensure that the funds are closely monitored during the execution of projects; the 40 per cent of the budget allocated for projects is a huge amount of money.tions for it to perform its responsibilities effectively. The institutions include police, courts of law, the Directorate of Public Prosecution and the National Audit Office of Tanzania (NAOT), among others. In a related development, Capt (Rtd) Mkuchika has directed all government institutions to invite officials from PCCB to create public awareness on anti-corruption during seminars, workshops and gatherings to be convened by the institutions.